# ProcessWire 3.0.33 and 2.8.33

Source: https://processwire.com/blog/posts/pw-3.0.33/

## Sections


## ProcessWire 3.0.33 and 2.8.33

2 September 2016 by Ryan Cramer [ 8 Comments](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.33/#comments)

I'll keep today's post short, as this week's updates have been mostly housekeeping related. Last week we had a lot of positive feedback from you about moving to the new [ProcessWire account on GitHub](https://github.com/processwire), so thank you for your responses!

We've gone ahead and converted that account to be a GitHub organization, and in the weeks ahead we'll be figuring out how best to utilize the new capabilities. Though so far, it looks like GitHub's organization features are very limited in terms of access control at present, so may not give us as much to work with as we'd like. But it's still a lot better than without it, so I can't complain.

To get things started, I've pushed ProcessWire 3.0.33 RC1 to this new organization account in the [new ProcessWire repository](https://github.com/processwire/processwire). This is our way of testing things out. You'll see the same version posted on the devns branch of our old repository, so it doesn't matter where you download it from. But once 3.x is our new official version, then this new repository is where you'll want to get it from.

In terms of actual release date for 3.x, we're going to target September 23, 2016. I'd aim for a week or two earlier, except that I've got to travel a bit between now and then, and I'd like to be fully present upon release, so this date is what works the best. There likely won't be any major code changes until official release, just bug fixes for anything that turns up.

Speaking of code changes, nearly every file in the core code base changed this week, but it was primarily aimed at updating code comments in file headers for version and dates, in preparation for the 3.x release. Beyond that, several updates were made to phpdoc documentation in files, and several minor bugs were fixed per GitHub issue reports. For more details on that see the [commit log](https://github.com/ryancramerdesign/ProcessWire/commits/devns).


### Recipe: hooks and partials

Last week the [ProcessWire Weekly](http://weekly.pw) started a new recipe of the week, and since this week's post is kind of short I thought I'd also throw one out there I've been experimenting with this week.

Every now and then, I need to include some kind of partial in the middle of a CKEditor field. Something like a subscribe form, photo gallery, PayPal donate button, things of that sort. Basically anything that takes some markup that wouldn't usually work in a rich text field. For example, lets say I've got these files as my partials:

- /site/templates/includes/subscribe-form.php
- /site/templates/includes/donate-button.php
- /site/templates/includes/photo-gallery.php

…and I want to be able to include any of them in my body copy (CKEditor/Textarea) field just by typing "include" and the name of it on it's own line, for example:

include-subscribe-form

Here's a hook you can put in your /site/ready.php file that will let you accomplish this:

```
$wire->addHookAfter('FieldtypeTextarea::formatValue', function($e) {
  if(strpos($e->return, "<p>include-") !== false) {
    $regex = '/<p>include-([-_a-zA-Z0-9]+)\s*<\/p>/';
    if(preg_match($regex, $e->return, $matches)) {
      $file = $e->wire('config')->paths->templates;
      $file .= "includes/$matches[1].php";
      if(is_file($file)) {
        $out = $e->wire('files')->render($file);
      } else {
        $out = '<p>file does not exist</p>';
      }
      $e->return = str_replace($matches[0], $out, $e->return);
    }
  }
});
```

You might notice this is kind of like a home brewed Hanna Code. The benefit over Hanna Code in this case is that the file is included in your site's /site/templates/ files, and thus managed along with the rest of the code in your site. Of course there are also benefits to using Hanna Code, but this is just one more tool in your toolbox that is nice when you want all of your code together in one spot.

As another (perhaps simpler) example, lets say that you want to be able to output a [Font Awesome icon](http://fontawesome.io/icons/) anywhere that you type "", i.e.

Have questions?

We'll assume you have already loaded Font Awesome's CSS file (if not, [here's how](http://fontawesome.io/get-started/)). And here's how you might automatically convert that "" to a Font Awesome icon on the front-end (again, in your /site/ready.php file):

```
$wire->addHookAfter('FieldtypeTextarea::formatValue', function($e) {
  if(strpos($e->return, 'icon-') !== false) {
    if(preg_match('/icon-([-a-z0-9]+)/', $e->return, $matches)) {
      $icon = "<i class='fa fa-$matches[1]'></i>";
      $e->return = str_replace($matches[0], $icon, $e->return);
    }
  }
});
```

Hope that you all have a great weekend, and be sure to check out the [ProcessWire Weekly](http://weekly.pw) this weekend!
