# More Fieldtype upgrades in ProcessWire 3.0.27

Source: https://processwire.com/blog/posts/3.0.27/

## Sections


## More Fieldtype upgrades in ProcessWire 3.0.27

22 July 2016 by Ryan Cramer [ 6 Comments](/blog/posts/3.0.27/#comments)


## ProcessWire 3.0.27 & 2.8.27


### Continued pagination and FieldtypeTable field upgrades

[Last week](/blog/posts/fieldtype-pagination/) we talked about paginated Fieldtypes and upgrades to the [ProFields Table](/api/modules/profields/table/) module. This is a fairly major change to support and a fairly major upgrade to both the core and Table modules. For that reason, it's taken another week to get everything finished, working and tested. You'll see these upgrades are now posted in ProcessWire versions 3.0.27 and 2.8.27.

In the short term, these changes probably don't mean much to you unless you are using the Table field. But that's temporary– as mentioned last week, we'll be utilizing some of these new capabilities in other core modules before long. But if you are currently using 3.0.25, and not using the Table field, then you can safely skip version 3.0.27 and perhaps upgrade to 3.0.28 next week instead. On the other hand, if you *are* using the Table field, and don't mind helping to beta test the new version of FieldtypeTable, then you'll want to go ahead and upgrade to 3.0.27 (or 2.8.27), as the new version of Table requires it. The new version of Table (v14) can be downloaded from the [ProFields download thread](/talk/topic/6413-profields-download/) (login required).


### New ProcessWire tutorial at Smashing Magazine

Most of you reading this probably already saw it, but a [great new article/tutorial for ProcessWire](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/07/the-aesthetic-of-non-opinionated-content-management-a-beginners-guide-to-processwire/) was released at [smashingmagazine.com](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/07/the-aesthetic-of-non-opinionated-content-management-a-beginners-guide-to-processwire/) this morning. It was written by [Francesco Schwarz](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/author/francescoschwarz/), who has also written a great ProcessWire article at [TutsPlus](http://tutsplus.com/authors/francesco-schwarz) (Ben Byford and also written some [great articles there](http://tutsplus.com/authors/ben-byford) as well). Smashing Magazine is perhaps the largest site covering web development related topics (?) and when they tweet out a link it goes to nearly a million people. Wow!

Back in 2011 (or 2010) when Smashing Magazine tweeted something about PW for the first time, they had ~200k Twitter followers, and the single tweet brought our server to a halt for nearly the entire day. I was always sad, thinking that our server resources at the time probably prevented the majority of people from ever getting through to our site and learning about PW. And Smashing Magazine never mentioned PW again since then. Though a few of you actually did get through on that day, and glad you are still here! Things have changed a lot in 5 years. Not only has ProcessWire come a long way, but our community has grown exponentially, Smashing Magazine actually has an article about PW (thanks to Francesco!), and they tweeted it out to nearly a million people, with our server having no problem whatsoever handling the traffic (thanks to Jan and IBM/Softlayer).

With the number of people that Smashing Magazine can reach out to, it is hugely helpful for getting the word out and connecting developers that might benefit from ProcessWire. If you haven't yet read the article, please do. And if you get a chance, please thank Francesco perhaps by replying in the comments section of the article. If this article gets a lot of activity, perhaps we will continue to see more of them at smashingmagazine.com. There is a lot of gratitude for all involved in making this article happen there, as well as all the other articles we've been seeing about ProcessWire.


### What’s new in ProFields Table v14?

The [ProFields Table Fieldtype](/api/modules/profields/table/) (v14) added support for pagination, sorting, and filtering, providing the necessary foundation for supporting tables with any number of rows. Previously, the quantity of rows was limited by how many you could fit in memory at once... the more rows you had, the more overhead. This is no longer the case. This section will describe how to utilize pagination for large tables. The latest version of ProFields Table adds the following new features:

- Pagination support, enabling any quantity of rows in tables.
- Automatic sorting support (required when using pagination).
- New "Find" support (filtering) in field editor (requires pagination).
- Find/filter of individual rows also supported for front-end API.
- New Double-click to delete all option.
- The "Add Row" link text is now customizable (multi-language supported as well).
- Major documentation updates to cover all new features.
- Complete refactoring of the javascript code.

This version is now available for download in the ProFields board. Current subscribers can download this latest version from the ProFields download thread (login required). Please note that ProcessWire 3.0.27 or 2.8.27 (or newer) are required to run this version. Because this is a beta version, be sure to read the recommendations and updated documentation posted in the ProFields Table support board.


### When will ProcessWire 3.x be officially released?

This question came up in the comments of last week’s post. Most of you using 3.x know that it's already quite suitable for production use, so long as you are willing to pay a little extra attention. The reality is, it's been ready for awhile, and could be ready at any time. We could (should?) probably just release it very soon here. Why is there any delay? I'll be honest, I'm having way too much fun making updates to it every week, and making an official version always feels like a pause in momentum. But here it is, the middle of summer, and it's about time to deliver this baby. I need to get some of Horst's image updates added, as well as cover a few new GitHub issue reports, but after that, it seems like we're ready (unless anything absolutely essential comes up).

Version 2.8 and 3.x master should be released at the same time, since they are basically the same code base. But I've not really heard much from people running the 2.8 version yet. If you are using it, please let us know how it's working for you, and if it's running perfectly, or if you've hit any snags. Thus far we've heard that the 2.8 version is running quite smoothly for those using it, but it would be good to hear from more.

Hope that you all have a great week and weekend. Stay tuned for PW 3.0.28 and 2.8.28 next week, and also be sure to read the [ProcessWire Weekly](http://weekly.pw) tomorrow.
