# ProcessWire 3.0.123 new master

Source: https://processwire.com/blog/posts/pw-3.0.123-master/

## Sections


## ProcessWire 3.0.123 new master

21 December 2018 by Ryan Cramer [ 6 Comments](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.123-master/#comments)


## New master version released


### ProcessWire 3.0.123

This last week with RC2 version 3.0.122, things have been relatively quiet on the issue reports front. There have not been any new dev-branch specific issue reports appearing. And all issues that did appear to be dev-branch specific have been resolved in the last month. In the last few weeks, we've also wound down the new additions to the core and focused purely on issue resolutions. I feel confident that our dev branch is more stable than our current master branch and thus we’re ready to release our next master version, 3.0.123.

Relative to our last master version (3.0.98), ProcessWire 3.0.123 contains a whole lot of bug fixes and issue resolutions. More than 190 issue reports have been closed in that time period. While there haven’t been any that we would consider major bugs in 3.0.98, version 3.0.123 nevertheless contains countless minor fixes, tweaks and optimizations. If you are following the master branch, it's definitely a worthwhile upgrade. It's also an easy upgrade, as you should only need to replace the /wire/ directory with the new version, and that's it.

In addition to fixes, tweaks and optimizations, below are some highlights of the new updates and additions that you’ll find in ProcessWire 3.0.123 relative to the last master version.


## Admin updates


### Admin environment

Brand new live search engine in the admin that now supports the ability for any module to include its items in search results. Search results are now organized by module, or you can limit search just to a specific module and use operators and properties to control what gets searched. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.108-preview/) and [more](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.108/)

Major improvements to trash emptying process, which can now manage much bigger deletions and provides options for time limits and gives you details on how long it might take as well as a pages-deleted-per-second rate. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.115-and-3.0.116-core-updates/#who-likes-emptying-the-trash)

Improvements to the user Profile edit screen, including a pop-up dialog box prompting the user for their password when a change a field requires it as a security confirmation. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.115-and-3.0.116-core-updates/#profile-screen-password-dialog-prompt)

Several improvements to ProcessWire’s Pages Export/Import functions in the admin, available via core modules *ProcessPagesExportImport*. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.117-core-updates/)

Lots of updates to the customizability of Uikit admin theme, *AdminThemeUikit*. [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.99/)

Added a new field tags manager in the admin for simpler management of the fields that belong to each tag. [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.106/)

Updated versions for both Uikit 3 and CKEditor.


### Login and authentication

Added support for two-factor authentication in the admin. Also created two modules for different kinds of multi-factor authentication including *TfaTotp* (time-based one-time password) and *TfaEmail* (for email/SMS). [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.109-adds-two-factor-authentication/)

Major and numerous updates to ProcessWire’s core *ProcessForgotPassword* (“Forgot Password”) module (nearly a rewrite). [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.103/#major-update-to-forgot-password-core-module)

Added the option to prevent more than one parallel session per user when using the core *SessionHandlerDB* (database sessions) module (via @kixe). [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.103/)

Added the ability to harass users into enabling two-factor authentication. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.115-and-3.0.116-core-updates/#two-factor-authentication-improvements)


### Page list

Added ability to support the “Trash” option in the Page List for non-superusers. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.107-core-updates/#trash-for-all)

Added the ability to customize the quantity type shown in the Page List. Rather than just showing a count of direct children, you can now configure it to show counts of all descendants, both children and descendants (distinctly), or page ID numbers. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.115-and-3.0.116-core-updates/#page-list-customization)


### Page editor

New “Restore” tab added to the Page Editor for pages that are in the trash. Checking a box on this tab lets you restore the page to its original pre-trash location. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.107-core-updates/#dumpster-dive-assistant)

Added new “What pages point to this one?” Field in the page editor (settings tab). This shows pages that contain page references or links to the page being edited. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.107-core-updates/#what-pages-point-to-this-one)

Improved page editor handling for support of “required” attributes on inputs. Now when a required input is missing, the page editor will automatically change the tab and locate the field that is missing a required value for you. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.113-core-updates/)

New redirect URL management in the page editor. See the bottom of the “Settings” tab, with field “What other URLs redirect to this page?”. This field not only shows you what URLs redirect to it, but also lets you add new ones. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.118-core-updates/#new-redirect-url-management-in-the-page-editor)

Collapsed file, image and CKEditor fields now automatically open when you drag a file from your computer on top of them. This enables you to perform a drag-n-drop file upload in cases you previously could not, due to a field being collapsed. (via @Toutouwai) [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.119-and-new-site-updates/#auto-opening-file-image-fields)


## API updates


### $page (Page class)

New `$page->restorable()` method that returns boolean true for pages that are in the trash and can be restored to their original location. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.107-core-updates/#page-gt-restorable)

New `$page->references()` method that returns a PageArray of all other pages referencing the page it is called from (via Page reference fields). Also added `$page->referencing` property which returns a *PageArray* of outbound links on $page, as well as `$page->numReferences` and `$page->hasReferences` which return quantities of inbound links from other pages. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.107-core-updates/#page-gt-references)

New `$page->links()` method that returns *PageArray* of all pages linking to the current one in `<a>` links contained in Textarea fields. Also added `$page->numLinks` and `$page->hasLinks` properties which return counts of inbound links. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.107-core-updates/#page-gt-links)

Added new `$page->urls()` method which returns an array of all URLs that $page is accessible from. This includes past URLs that redirect to it, as well as multi-language URLs that $page is also accessible from. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.107-core-updates/#page-gt-urls)

New `$page->findOne()` method that works like $page->find() except that it returns the first matching descendant page rather than all matching pages. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.115-and-3.0.116-core-updates/#new-page-traversal-methods)

New `$page->numDescendants()` that is like $page->numChildren() except that it returns a count of all descending pages rather than just direct children. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.115-and-3.0.116-core-updates/#new-page-traversal-methods)

New `$page->descendants()` and `$page->descendant()` methods that are aliases of $page->find() and $page->findOne(). [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.115-and-3.0.116-core-updates/#new-page-traversal-methods)

New `$page->addUrl()` and `$page->removeUrl()` methods that let you add or remove URLs that should redirect to the $page. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.118-core-updates/#new-page-api-redirect-methods)


### $mail

Added new `$mail->mail()` and `$mail->mailHTML()` methods which mimic the behavior of PHP's mail() function while using WireMail. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.105-core-updates/#updates-to-the-mail-api-variable)

Added new `$mail->to()`, `$mail->from()` and `$mail->subject()` methods, enabling you to skip the $mail->new() call, saving a step. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.113-core-updates/)


### $sanitizer

New `$sanitizer->truncate()` method for smart text truncation to nearest word, sentence or paragraph (and more) with lots of customization options. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.101-core-updates/)

Improvements to $sanitizer methods: `$sanitizer->text()`, textarea(), unentities(). Plus addition of `$sanitizer->removeWhitespace()` method. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.105-core-updates/#upgrades-to-sanitizer)

New $sanitizer methods for case conversion: `$sanitizer->hyphenCase()`, kebabCase(), snakeCase(), camelCase() and pascalCase(). [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.113-core-updates/)


### $config

New pagination helpers: `$config->pagerHeadTags` that contains `<link rel=[pref|next]>` ready for document <head>, plus new `$config->urls->next` and `$config->urls->prev` properties that contain next and previous URL when using pagination. [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.106/#other-updates-in-3.0.106)

Addition of `$config->noHTTPS` which lets you disable HTTPS requirements for staging/development environments or for specific HTTP hosts. [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.99/)


### $input

New $input API variable methods `$input->pageNumStr()`, `$input->httpHostUrl()`, and upgrades to existing `$input->urlSegmentStr(args)`. [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.106/#new-input-methods)


### $files

Added new `$files->unlink() `method for deleting files, and new `$files->rename()` method for renaming files. These methods include extra safety measures relative to their native PHP equivalents. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.118-core-updates/#new-files-api-var-methods-and-improvements)


### Inputfield

New Javascript API functions: `InputfieldFocus($el)`, `InputfieldOpen($el)` and `InputfieldClose($el)` functions that enable you to focus, open and close Inputfield elements from Javascript. The InputfieldFocus() method automatically locates the input (changing tabs or opening fieldsets as necessary) to reveal and focus the Inputfield. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.113-core-updates/)

New Inputfield class traversal methods: `$inputfield->getRootParent()` and `$inputfield->getForm()`. [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.106/#new-inputfield-traversal-methods)


### WireArray

Updated the base *WireArray* class to make it a lot more useful. It can now be used for for general purpose storage needs. You can also create a new *WireArray* and populate it with values using the `WireArray::new(‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’);` method or `WireArray([‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’])` function. Both also work with *PageArray*. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.117-core-updates/)

New `WireArray::slices()` method that splits any *WireArray* into a quantity of slices that you specify, where each slice contains that quantity of items from the original *WireArray*. This can be used by *WireArray* or any *WireArray* derived type, however we expect it’s most likely to come in handy with *PageArray*. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.119-and-new-site-updates/#new-wirearray-slices-method)


### New core classes

New *PagesNames* class, accessible at `$pages->names()`, which provides several new methods for management of page names. While mostly for internal use, the API is public as some of the methods may be useful outside the core. [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.111/)

New *WireRandom* class that adds a useful assortment of cryptographically secure random number and string generation methods. [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.111/)


## Other updates

Relative to the previous master version (3.0.98) numerous core classes (too many to count) have undergone significant refactoring and improvements.

Added support for method-level permission settings in Process modules, enabling even more granular permission control. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.113-core-updates/)

Added new “pw-optional” attribute for use with Markup Regions. This enables you to designate elements as optional and to-be-removed from the markup automatically if something does not populate them. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.117-core-updates/)

New support for chunked Ajax file upload (via @BitPoet) enabling you to Ajax-upload files larger than you previously could due to PHP memory settings. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.119-and-new-site-updates/#chunked-ajax-file-upload)

New Functions API `setting()` function for management of run-time settings on the front-end for your site. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.119-and-new-site-updates/#new-functions-api-setting-function)

Numerous improvements to the core comments search engine available at `FieldtypeComments::find()`. [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.103/#upgrades-to-comments-search-engine)

New “Regular” site profile added to the core, which also demonstrates use of Markup Regions. The profile uses Uikit v3. [More](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.105-core-updates/#new-site-profile-in-core)

Added the ability for `$pages->find()` to search multiple fields at once by using field tags as the search property rather than field. [More](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.106/)


### Is this more like ProcessWire 3.1?

As you can see from this post, ProcessWire 3.0.123 is actually a fairly major release relative to the last master version. There's just a lot here and I debated whether or not to call this ProcessWire 3.1 or 3.0.123. Technically I think our core is certainly one or more minor version(s) beyond the original PW 3.0 release. In terms of scope, a 3.1 designation for this version would certainly be appropriate. But I'm not calling it PW 3.1 because, while the core has come a long way, it remains for the most part fully compatible with early 3.x versions. Meaning, there's little reason to have separate 3.0 and 3.1 versions as it relates to compatibility, as far as I can tell so far.

Specifically, I'm thinking about the modules directory. I can't currently think of any modules that require something more than 3.0.89, other than one ListerPro Action module released a couple of weeks ago. I could be wrong (?), but there doesn't seem to be a technical need for a 3.1 version designation at present. As a result, I'd rather save those 3.[minorVersion] updates for versions that might represent a major change as it relates to module compatibility.

Please let me know how ProcessWire 3.0.123 works for you. Usually when we put out a new master version, we might put out one or two updates to it in the following weeks just to correct minor isssues that cropped up due to a larger audience now using it. That's likely to be the case this time too, and following that we'll get back to focusing on the dev branch with some new features and pending PRs I've been wanting to add. Thanks for reading and be sure to check in at the [ProcessWire Weekly](http://weekly.pw) this weekend for the latest news and updates. Merry Christmas / Happy Holidays to everyone.
