# ProcessWire 3.0.148 new master

Source: https://processwire.com/blog/posts/pw-3.0.148-master/

## Sections


## ProcessWire 3.0.148 new master

3 January 2020 by Ryan Cramer [ 6 Comments](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.148-master/#comments)

Today we have a new master version released, version 3.0.148! The last master version was 3.0.123, so there are 25 new versions worth of upgrades, fixes and optimizations in this new master version, relative to the previous. In this post we’ll take a closer look at what’s new.

In going through all of the changes, version by version on the dev branch, one thing I noticed is that a large percentage of the commits over the last year had to do with resolving hundreds of issues reported at GitHub. While none are major things, the combined effect of so many minor fixes is actually quite large, and definitely makes this upgrade worthwhile, regardless of the new additions. While an itemized list of fixes doesn’t make for good blog reading material, I did just want to preface this post by mentioning that this is one of the major differences between 3.0.123 and 3.0.148.

A special thanks to everyone that's contributed to this version with reports, ideas, code and troubleshooting at GitHub over the last year. You all are the reason why ProcessWire is so reliable and stable. Thanks also to Teppo Koivula for covering all of the core updates and everything else he does at [ProcessWire Weekly](https://weekly.pw). In addition, thanks to Horst for providing the initial development of the WebP support, one of the most exciting additions in this version relative to the previous master. Thanks also to the entire ProcessWire community for all that you do in supporting the project and helping others here. I think we've got one of our best master version releases ever, let’s take a look at what’s new in this version relative to the last master version…


## What’s new in ProcessWire 3.0.148?


### Images and files upgrades


### Page API upgrades


### $sanitizer API variable upgrades


### API variable upgrades


### Fieldtypes and Inputfields


### WireHttp class upgrades


### Hooks system


### Admin improvements


### System improvements


### New functions


### Other improvements


## How to upgrade to ProcessWire 3.0.148

This section assumes you are upgrading from another 3.x version, but if you are upgrading from a 2.x version then you should go [here](https://github.com/processwire/processwire/blob/master/README.md#upgrading-from-processwire-2x) instead.

When upgrading from one 3.x version to another, please use the [General Upgrade Process](https://processwire.com/docs/start/install/upgrade/#general-upgrade-process). This consists primarily of making sure you've got everything backed up and then just replacing your `/wire/` directory with the one from the newest version.

In addition, if you are currently running any 3.x version prior to 3.0.135, you will also want to upgrade your root `.htaccess` file to the newest version:


### Upgrading your .htaccess file

If you are curious what's new in this latest .htaccess file version, please see [this post](https://processwire.com/blog/posts/pw-3.0.135/) for all the details.


## How ProcessWire professionals work


### ProcessWire Weekly infographic

In case you haven't seen it yet, [ProcessWire Weekly #294](https://weekly.pw/issue/294/) included a pretty amazing infographic titled [How ProcessWire professionals work – the results of our recent weekly polls summarised](https://weekly.pw/issue/294/#how-processwire-professionals-work-the-results-of-our-recent-weekly-polls-summarised). I found it fascinating and a really compelling and beautiful presentation put together by Teppo. Be sure to check it out if you haven't already by clicking the graphic below:

[](https://weekly.pw/site/assets/files/6955/processwireworks-infographic-full.png)

Image above from ProcessWire Weekly #294

Thanks for reading and Happy New Year! I hope that you enjoy this new master version of ProcessWire 3.0.148. Stay tuned, lots of great stuff is on the way for ProcessWire in 2020!

ProcessWire is a timeless tool for web professionals that has always been committed to the long term. It started in 2003, gained the name ProcessWire in 2006, and has been in active development as an open source project since 2010. Now more than a decade later (2020), we’re just getting started, as ProcessWire continues to grow and develop into the next 10 years and beyond!

Excerpt from ProcessWire 3.0.148 [README](https://github.com/processwire/processwire/blob/master/README.md) file
