# ProcessWire 3.0.190 core updates

Source: https://processwire.com/blog/posts/pw-3.0.190/

## Sections


## ProcessWire 3.0.190 core updates

3 December 2021 by Ryan Cramer [ 0 Comments](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.190/#comments)

ProcessWire 3.0.190 has 15 commits relative to 3.0.189 and contains a mixture of issue resolutions and feature additions. We’ll review these below, in addition to updates for the PageAutosave and ProFields Table modules.

In terms of core updates, this post covers the differences between dev branch minor versions 3.0.189 and 3.0.190. The last version covered by a blog post here was 3.0.184, so if you don't follow the [weekly forum posts](https://processwire.com/talk/forum/7-news-amp-announcements/) but are interested in what else is new since 3.0.184 (and there has been a lot), be sure to read [ProcessWire Weekly editions #384 and newer](https://weekly.pw/issue/), in addition to the weekly forum posts.


### Feature additions in 3.0.190

Custom background colors for RepeaterMatrix items, plus optionally hide controls/actions for non-hovered item labels.


### Issue resolutions in 3.0.190


### PageAutosave + LivePreview v6

This week there is also an update posted to the PageAutosave + LivePreview module in the ProDrafts, ProFields and ProDevTools boards. This new version adds the following:

A small toggle above the page headline lets you turn autosave on or off.

If autosave happens to be off when you try to use live preview, it will prompt you to enable it. If there are unsaved fields, it will also ask you about them before launching the live preview.

In case you missed it earlier, here's a video posted by Jonathan Lahijani (in the forum) demonstrating his use of the PageAutosave + LivePreview module with his page builder:


### ProFields Table v22

A new development version of ProFields table was posted in the ProFields board. This version adds the following:

Thanks for reading, have a great weekend and remember to stop by [ProcessWire Weekly](https://weekly.pw) for the latest ProcessWire news, updates and site of the week.
