# Fields, types, input

Source: https://processwire.com/docs/fields/

## Summary

Additional documentation and details on using various different kinds of field types and input fields in ProcessWire.Introduction to fieldsFields are where the content is actually stored for pages. This page provides more information about Fields, Fieldtypes and…Learn more →Field dependenciesInput and field dependencies enable you to specify the conditions under which a particular field in the page editor is shown or…Learn more →RepeatersThe repeater fieldtype enables you to create a group of fields and make it repeatable in any quantity on your page. This opens…Learn more →TextareaThe Textarea Fieldtype is designed to hold any amount of text. Typically Textarea is used for multi-line text values. It is also…Learn more →Select optionsThe Options Fieldtype provides single and multi choice selectable options in ProcessWire, as an alternative to using Page fields.Learn more →ImagesThis page outlines using and manipulating image fields — one of the most commonly used in ProcessWire.Learn more →Multi-language fieldsProcessWire supports various kinds of multi-language text fields. This page outlines how to use them.Learn more →CKEditorCKEditor is the rich text editor used by ProcessWire via the module InputfieldCKEditor. On a default installation of ProcessWire…Learn more →

## Key Points

- Additional documentation and details on using various different kinds of field types and input fields in ProcessWire.Introduction to fieldsFields are where the content is actually stored for pages. This page provides more information about Fields, Fieldtypes and…Learn more →Field dependenciesInput and field dependencies enable you to specify the conditions under which a particular field in the page editor is shown or…Learn more →RepeatersThe repeater fieldtype enables you to create a group of fields and make it repeatable in any quantity on your page. This opens…Learn more →TextareaThe Textarea Fieldtype is designed to hold any amount of text. Typically Textarea is used for multi-line text values. It is also…Learn more →Select optionsThe Options Fieldtype provides single and multi choice selectable options in ProcessWire, as an alternative to using Page fields.Learn more →ImagesThis page outlines using and manipulating image fields — one of the most commonly used in ProcessWire.Learn more →Multi-language fieldsProcessWire supports various kinds of multi-language text fields. This page outlines how to use them.Learn more →CKEditorCKEditor is the rich text editor used by ProcessWire via the module InputfieldCKEditor. On a default installation of ProcessWire…Learn more →

## Sections


## Fields, Fieldtypes and Inputfields

Additional documentation and details on using various different kinds of field types and input fields in ProcessWire.Introduction to fieldsFields are where the content is actually stored for pages. This page provides more information about Fields, Fieldtypes and…Learn more →Field dependenciesInput and field dependencies enable you to specify the conditions under which a particular field in the page editor is shown or…Learn more →RepeatersThe repeater fieldtype enables you to create a group of fields and make it repeatable in any quantity on your page. This opens…Learn more →TextareaThe Textarea Fieldtype is designed to hold any amount of text. Typically Textarea is used for multi-line text values. It is also…Learn more →Select optionsThe Options Fieldtype provides single and multi choice selectable options in ProcessWire, as an alternative to using Page fields.Learn more →ImagesThis page outlines using and manipulating image fields — one of the most commonly used in ProcessWire.Learn more →Multi-language fieldsProcessWire supports various kinds of multi-language text fields. This page outlines how to use them.Learn more →CKEditorCKEditor is the rich text editor used by ProcessWire via the module InputfieldCKEditor. On a default installation of ProcessWire…Learn more →
