# Multi language support with ProcessWire CMS

Source: https://processwire.com/docs/multi-language-support/

## Summary

Multi-language page names (URLs) and multi-language text fields make developing a multilingual site as easy as developing a single language site. ProcessWire's multi-language support includes a full gettext-style translation system, but with the translation tools built into the CMS, and without actually using gettext. You can also install (or create) alternate language packs for the admin side of ProcessWire.Multi-language support is installed with core modules available in the admin: Modules > Language > Language Support. If you just want to install alternate language packs, then all you need is the base Language Support module. If you want to support multi-language fields in your own site, then you should also install the Language Support Fields module. We also recommend installing Language Support Page Names module for multi-language URLs. Code i18nThis page provides detailed documentation on everything you need to know to make your template files or modules translatable…Learn more →Multi-language fieldsHere we look in detail at multi-language fields and language-alternate fields, as well as how to use them. Also includes a video…Learn more →Multi-language URLsMulti-language URLs and page names enable you to maintain different/translated URLs for each page, based on the language. It also…Learn more →Language PacksLanguage packs for use with the ProcessWire admin.Learn more →Multi-Language Support ForumA place to get support and chat about multi-language capabilities in ProcessWire.Learn more →Hreflang tag generatorHreflang tag generator for multi-language websites. Select a language and optionally a country to generate the hreflang tag.Learn more →Creating multi-language modulesIf you are a module developer, you might want to bundle multi-language translations with your module. This page covers all the…Learn more →

## Key Points

- Multi-language page names (URLs) and multi-language text fields make developing a multilingual site as easy as developing a single language site. ProcessWire's multi-language support includes a full gettext-style translation system, but with the translation tools built into the CMS, and without actually using gettext. You can also install (or create) alternate language packs for the admin side of ProcessWire.Multi-language support is installed with core modules available in the admin: Modules > Language > Language Support. If you just want to install alternate language packs, then all you need is the base Language Support module. If you want to support multi-language fields in your own site, then you should also install the Language Support Fields module. We also recommend installing Language Support Page Names module for multi-language URLs. Code i18nThis page provides detailed documentation on everything you need to know to make your template files or modules translatable…Learn more →Multi-language fieldsHere we look in detail at multi-language fields and language-alternate fields, as well as how to use them. Also includes a video…Learn more →Multi-language URLsMulti-language URLs and page names enable you to maintain different/translated URLs for each page, based on the language. It also…Learn more →Language PacksLanguage packs for use with the ProcessWire admin.Learn more →Multi-Language Support ForumA place to get support and chat about multi-language capabilities in ProcessWire.Learn more →Hreflang tag generatorHreflang tag generator for multi-language websites. Select a language and optionally a country to generate the hreflang tag.Learn more →Creating multi-language modulesIf you are a module developer, you might want to bundle multi-language translations with your module. This page covers all the…Learn more →

## Sections


## Multiple language support with ProcessWire

Multi-language page names (URLs) and multi-language text fields make developing a multilingual site as easy as developing a single language site. ProcessWire's multi-language support includes a full gettext-style translation system, but with the translation tools built into the CMS, and without actually using gettext. You can also install (or create) alternate language packs for the admin side of ProcessWire.Multi-language support is installed with core modules available in the admin: Modules > Language > Language Support. If you just want to install alternate language packs, then all you need is the base Language Support module. If you want to support multi-language fields in your own site, then you should also install the Language Support Fields module. We also recommend installing Language Support Page Names module for multi-language URLs. Code i18nThis page provides detailed documentation on everything you need to know to make your template files or modules translatable…Learn more →Multi-language fieldsHere we look in detail at multi-language fields and language-alternate fields, as well as how to use them. Also includes a video…Learn more →Multi-language URLsMulti-language URLs and page names enable you to maintain different/translated URLs for each page, based on the language. It also…Learn more →Language PacksLanguage packs for use with the ProcessWire admin.Learn more →Multi-Language Support ForumA place to get support and chat about multi-language capabilities in ProcessWire.Learn more →Hreflang tag generatorHreflang tag generator for multi-language websites. Select a language and optionally a country to generate the hreflang tag.Learn more →Creating multi-language modulesIf you are a module developer, you might want to bundle multi-language translations with your module. This page covers all the…Learn more →
