docs/guides/docs/multi-language-support.md, before:

# Multi language support with ProcessWire CMS

Source: https://processwire.com/docs/multi-language-support/

## Summary

Multi-language page names (URLs) and multi-language text fields make developing a multilingual site as easy as developing a single language site.

## Key Points

- [Code i18n](/docs/multi-language-support/code-i18n/)This page provides detailed documentation on everything you need to know to make your template files or modules translatable…
- [Multi-language fields](/docs/multi-language-support/multi-language-fields/)Here we look in detail at multi-language fields and language-alternate fields, as well as how to use them. Also includes a video…
- [Multi-language URLs](/docs/multi-language-support/multi-language-urls/)Multi-language URLs and page names enable you to maintain different/translated URLs for each page, based on the language. It also…
- [Language Packs](/docs/multi-language-support/admin-language-packs/)Language packs for use with the ProcessWire admin.
- [Multi-Language Support Forum](/docs/multi-language-support/multi-language-support-forum/)A place to get support and chat about multi-language capabilities in ProcessWire.

## Sections


## Multiple language support with ProcessWire

Multi-language page names (URLs) and multi-language text fields make developing a multilingual site as easy as developing a single language site.

ProcessWire's multi-language support includes a full gettext-style [translation system](/docs/multi-language-support/code-i18n/), but with the translation tools built into the CMS, and without actually using gettext. You can also install (or create) alternate language packs for the admin side of ProcessWire.

Multi-language support is installed with core modules available in the admin: Modules > Language > Language Support. If you just want to install alternate language packs, then all you need is the base *Language Support* module. If you want to support multi-language fields in your own site, then you should also install the *Language Support Fields* module. We also recommend installing *Language Support Page Names* module for multi-language URLs*. *

- [Code i18n](/docs/multi-language-support/code-i18n/)This page provides detailed documentation on everything you need to know to make your template files or modules translatable…
- [Multi-language fields](/docs/multi-language-support/multi-language-fields/)Here we look in detail at multi-language fields and language-alternate fields, as well as how to use them. Also includes a video…
- [Multi-language URLs](/docs/multi-language-support/multi-language-urls/)Multi-language URLs and page names enable you to maintain different/translated URLs for each page, based on the language. It also…
- [Language Packs](/docs/multi-language-support/admin-language-packs/)Language packs for use with the ProcessWire admin.
- [Multi-Language Support Forum](/docs/multi-language-support/multi-language-support-forum/)A place to get support and chat about multi-language capabilities in ProcessWire.
- [Hreflang tag generator](/docs/multi-language-support/hreflang-generator/)Hreflang tag generator for multi-language websites. Select a language and optionally a country to generate the hreflang tag.
- [Creating multi-language modules](/docs/multi-language-support/multi-language-modules/)If you are a module developer, you might want to bundle multi-language translations with your module. This page covers all the…

Commit message:

feat: improve table rendering and code wrapping in guides

docs/guides/docs/multi-language-support.md, after:

# Multi language support with ProcessWire CMS

Source: https://processwire.com/docs/multi-language-support/

## Summary

Multi-language page names (URLs) and multi-language text fields make developing a multilingual site as easy as developing a single language site.

## Key Points

- Multi-language page names (URLs) and multi-language text fields make developing a multilingual site as easy as developing a single language site.
- ProcessWire's multi-language support includes a full gettext-style [translation system](/docs/multi-language-support/code-i18n/), but with the translation tools built into the CMS, and without actually using gettext. You can also install (or create) alternate language packs for the admin side of ProcessWire.
- Multi-language support is installed with core modules available in the admin: Modules > Language > Language Support. If you just want to install alternate language packs, then all you need is the base *Language Support* module. If you want to support multi-language fields in your own site, then you should also install the *Language Support Fields* module. We also recommend installing *Language Support Page Names* module for multi-language URLs*. *

## Sections


## Multiple language support with ProcessWire

Multi-language page names (URLs) and multi-language text fields make developing a multilingual site as easy as developing a single language site.

ProcessWire's multi-language support includes a full gettext-style [translation system](/docs/multi-language-support/code-i18n/), but with the translation tools built into the CMS, and without actually using gettext. You can also install (or create) alternate language packs for the admin side of ProcessWire.

Multi-language support is installed with core modules available in the admin: Modules > Language > Language Support. If you just want to install alternate language packs, then all you need is the base *Language Support* module. If you want to support multi-language fields in your own site, then you should also install the *Language Support Fields* module. We also recommend installing *Language Support Page Names* module for multi-language URLs*. *
