docs/full/wire/core/Wire/method-addhookproperty.md, before:

# $wire->addHookProperty($property, $toObject, $toMethod = null, $options = array()): string

Source: `wire/core/Wire.php`

Add a hook that will be accessible as a new object property.

This enables you to add a new accessible property to an existing object, which will execute
your hook implementation method when called upon.

Note that adding a hook with this just makes it possible to call the hook as a property.
Any hook property you add can also be called as a method, i.e. `$obj->foo` and `$obj->foo()`
are the same.

~~~~~
// Adding a hook property
$wire->addHookProperty('Page::lastModifiedStr', function($event) {
  $page = $event->object;
  $event->return = wireDate('relative', $page->modified);
});

// Accessing the property (from any instance)
echo $page->lastModifiedStr; // outputs: "10 days ago"
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$property` `string|array` Name of property you want to add, must not collide with existing property or method names: - `Class::property` to add the property to all instances of Class. - `property` if just adding to a single object instance. - Since 3.0.137 it may also be multiple properties to hook in CSV string or array.
- `$toObject` `object|null|callable` Specify one of the following: - Object instance to call `$toMethod` from (like `$this`). - Inline function (closure) if providing implemention inline. - Procedural function name, if hook is implemented by a procedural function. - Null if you want to use the 3rd argument and don't need this argument.
- `$toMethod` (optional) `string|array` Method from $toObject, or function name to call on a hook event. This argument can be sustituted as the 2nd argument when the 2nd argument isn’t needed, or it can be the $options argument.
- `$options` (optional) `array` Options typically aren't used in this context, but see Wire::addHookBefore() $options if you'd like.

## Return value

string A special Hook ID (or CSV string of hook IDs) that should be retained if you need to remove the hook later.

## See also

- [https://processwire.com/docs/modules/hooks/](https://processwire.com/docs/modules/hooks/)

Commit message:

Align method docs with official structure

docs/full/wire/core/Wire/method-addhookproperty.md, after:

# $wire->addHookProperty($property, $toObject, $toMethod = null, $options = array()): string

Source: `wire/core/Wire.php`

Add a hook that will be accessible as a new object property.

This enables you to add a new accessible property to an existing object, which will execute
your hook implementation method when called upon.

Note that adding a hook with this just makes it possible to call the hook as a property.
Any hook property you add can also be called as a method, i.e. `$obj->foo` and `$obj->foo()`
are the same.

## Example

~~~~~
// Adding a hook property
$wire->addHookProperty('Page::lastModifiedStr', function($event) {
  $page = $event->object;
  $event->return = wireDate('relative', $page->modified);
});

// Accessing the property (from any instance)
echo $page->lastModifiedStr; // outputs: "10 days ago"
~~~~~

## Usage

~~~~~
// basic usage
$string = $wire->addHookProperty($property, $toObject);

// usage with all arguments
$string = $wire->addHookProperty($property, $toObject, $toMethod = null, $options = array());
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$property` `string|array` Name of property you want to add, must not collide with existing property or method names: - `Class::property` to add the property to all instances of Class. - `property` if just adding to a single object instance. - Since 3.0.137 it may also be multiple properties to hook in CSV string or array.
- `$toObject` `object|null|callable` Specify one of the following: - Object instance to call `$toMethod` from (like `$this`). - Inline function (closure) if providing implemention inline. - Procedural function name, if hook is implemented by a procedural function. - Null if you want to use the 3rd argument and don't need this argument.
- `$toMethod` (optional) `string|array` Method from $toObject, or function name to call on a hook event. This argument can be sustituted as the 2nd argument when the 2nd argument isn’t needed, or it can be the $options argument.
- `$options` (optional) `array` Options typically aren't used in this context, but see Wire::addHookBefore() $options if you'd like.

## Return value

- `string` A special Hook ID (or CSV string of hook IDs) that should be retained if you need to remove the hook later.

## See Also

- [https://processwire.com/docs/modules/hooks/](https://processwire.com/docs/modules/hooks/)
