docs/core/wire/core/Pages/method-getbyids.md, before:

# $pages->getByIDs($ids, array $options = array()): PageArray|Page

Source: `wire/core/Pages.php`

Given array or CSV string of Page IDs, return a PageArray

## Arguments

- `$ids` `array|string|WireArray` Any one of the following: - Single page ID (string or int) - Array of page IDs - Comma or pipe-separated string of page IDs - Array of associative arrays having id and templates_id: [ [ 'id' => 1, 'templates_id' => 2], [ 'id' => 3, 'templates_id' => 4 ] ]
- `$options` (optional) `array` Options to affect behavior. The 'template' option is recommended when you have this info available. - `template` (Template|int|string): Template object, name or ID to use for loaded pages. (default=null) - `parent` (Page|int|string): Parent Page object, ID, or path to use for loaded pages. (default=null) - `cache` (bool): Place loaded pages in memory cache? (default=true) - `getFromCache` (bool): Allow use of previously cached pages in memory (rather than re-loading it from DB)? (default=true) - `getNumChildren` (bool): Specify false to disable retrieval and population of 'numChildren' Page property. (default=true) - `getOne` (bool): Specify true to return just one Page object, rather than a PageArray. (default=false) - `autojoin` (bool): Allow use of autojoin option? (default=true) - `joinFields` (array): Autojoin the field names specified in this array, regardless of field settings (requires autojoin=true). (default=empty) - `joinSortfield` (bool): Whether the 'sortfield' property will be joined to the page. (default=true) - `findTemplates` (bool): Determine which templates will be used (when no template specified) for more specific autojoins. (default=true) - `pageClass` (string): Class to instantiate Page objects with. Leave blank to determine from template. (default=auto-detect) - `pageArrayClass` (string): PageArray-derived class to store pages in (when 'getOne' is false). (default=PageArray) - `pageArray` (PageArray|null): Populate this existing PageArray rather than creating a new one. (default=null) - `page` (Page|null): Existing Page object to populate (also requires the getOne option to be true). (default=null)

## Return value

PageArray|Page Returns PageArray unless the getOne option was specified in which case a Page is returned.

## Since

3.0.156 Previous versions can use $pages->getById() for similar behavior

Commit message:

Align method docs with official structure

docs/core/wire/core/Pages/method-getbyids.md, after:

# $pages->getByIDs($ids, array $options = array()): PageArray|Page

Source: `wire/core/Pages.php`

Given array or CSV string of Page IDs, return a PageArray

## Usage

~~~~~
// basic usage
$items = $pages->getByIDs($ids);

// usage with all arguments
$items = $pages->getByIDs($ids, array $options = array());
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$ids` `array|string|WireArray` Any one of the following: - Single page ID (string or int) - Array of page IDs - Comma or pipe-separated string of page IDs - Array of associative arrays having id and templates_id: [ [ 'id' => 1, 'templates_id' => 2], [ 'id' => 3, 'templates_id' => 4 ] ]
- `$options` (optional) `array` Options to affect behavior. The 'template' option is recommended when you have this info available. - `template` (Template|int|string): Template object, name or ID to use for loaded pages. (default=null) - `parent` (Page|int|string): Parent Page object, ID, or path to use for loaded pages. (default=null) - `cache` (bool): Place loaded pages in memory cache? (default=true) - `getFromCache` (bool): Allow use of previously cached pages in memory (rather than re-loading it from DB)? (default=true) - `getNumChildren` (bool): Specify false to disable retrieval and population of 'numChildren' Page property. (default=true) - `getOne` (bool): Specify true to return just one Page object, rather than a PageArray. (default=false) - `autojoin` (bool): Allow use of autojoin option? (default=true) - `joinFields` (array): Autojoin the field names specified in this array, regardless of field settings (requires autojoin=true). (default=empty) - `joinSortfield` (bool): Whether the 'sortfield' property will be joined to the page. (default=true) - `findTemplates` (bool): Determine which templates will be used (when no template specified) for more specific autojoins. (default=true) - `pageClass` (string): Class to instantiate Page objects with. Leave blank to determine from template. (default=auto-detect) - `pageArrayClass` (string): PageArray-derived class to store pages in (when 'getOne' is false). (default=PageArray) - `pageArray` (PageArray|null): Populate this existing PageArray rather than creating a new one. (default=null) - `page` (Page|null): Existing Page object to populate (also requires the getOne option to be true). (default=null)

## Return value

- `PageArray|Page` Returns PageArray unless the getOne option was specified in which case a Page is returned.

## Since

3.0.156 Previous versions can use $pages->getById() for similar behavior
