docs/full/wire/core/Selectors/method-getselectorbyfield.md, before:

# $selectors->getSelectorByField($fieldName, $or = false, $all = false): Selector|array|null

Source: `wire/core/Selectors.php`

Get the first selector that uses given field name

This is useful for quickly retrieving values of reserved properties like "include", "limit", "start", etc.

Using **$or:** By default this excludes selectors that have fields in an OR expression, like "a|b|c".
So if you specified field "a" it would not be matched. If you wanted it to still match, specify true
for the $or argument.

Using **$all:** By default only the first matching selector is returned. If you want it to return all
matching selectors in an array, then specify true for the $all argument. This changes the return value
to always be an array of Selector objects, or a blank array if no match.

## Arguments

- `$fieldName` `string` Name of field to return value for (i.e. "include", "limit", etc.)
- `$or` (optional) `bool` Allow fields that appear in OR expressions? (default=false)
- `$all` (optional) `bool` Return an array of all matching Selector objects? (default=false)

## Return value

Selector|array|null Returns null if field not present in selectors (or blank array if $all mode)

Commit message:

Align method docs with official structure

docs/full/wire/core/Selectors/method-getselectorbyfield.md, after:

# $selectors->getSelectorByField($fieldName, $or = false, $all = false): Selector|array|null

Source: `wire/core/Selectors.php`

Get the first selector that uses given field name

This is useful for quickly retrieving values of reserved properties like "include", "limit", "start", etc.

Using **$or:** By default this excludes selectors that have fields in an OR expression, like "a|b|c".
So if you specified field "a" it would not be matched. If you wanted it to still match, specify true
for the $or argument.

Using **$all:** By default only the first matching selector is returned. If you want it to return all
matching selectors in an array, then specify true for the $all argument. This changes the return value
to always be an array of Selector objects, or a blank array if no match.

## Usage

~~~~~
// basic usage
$selector = $selectors->getSelectorByField($fieldName);

// usage with all arguments
$selector = $selectors->getSelectorByField($fieldName, $or = false, $all = false);
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$fieldName` `string` Name of field to return value for (i.e. "include", "limit", etc.)
- `$or` (optional) `bool` Allow fields that appear in OR expressions? (default=false)
- `$all` (optional) `bool` Return an array of all matching Selector objects? (default=false)

## Return value

- `Selector|array|null` Returns null if field not present in selectors (or blank array if $all mode)
