docs/core/wire/core/DatabaseQuery/method-getbindvalues.md, before:

# $databaseQuery->getBindValues($options = array()): array|int

Source: `wire/core/DatabaseQuery.php`

Get bind values, with options

- If given a \PDOStatement or DatabaseQuery, it is assumed to be the `query` option.
- When copying, you may prefer to use the copyBindValuesTo() method instead (more readable).

Note: The $options argument was added in 3.0.156, prior to this it was a $method argument,
which was never used so has been removed.

## Arguments

- `$options` (optional) `string|\PDOStatement|DatabaseQuery|array` Optionally specify an option: - `query` (\PDOStatement|DatabaseQuery): Copy bind values to this query object (default=null) - `count` (bool): Get a count of values rather than array of values (default=false) 3.0.157+ - `inSQL` (string): Only get bind values referenced in this given SQL statement

## Return value

array|int Returns one of the following: - Associative array in format [ ":column" => "value" ] where each "value" is int, string or NULL. - if `count` option specified as true then it returns a count of values instead.

Commit message:

Align method docs with official structure

docs/core/wire/core/DatabaseQuery/method-getbindvalues.md, after:

# $databaseQuery->getBindValues($options = array()): array|int

Source: `wire/core/DatabaseQuery.php`

Get bind values, with options

- If given a \PDOStatement or DatabaseQuery, it is assumed to be the `query` option.
- When copying, you may prefer to use the copyBindValuesTo() method instead (more readable).

Note: The $options argument was added in 3.0.156, prior to this it was a $method argument,
which was never used so has been removed.

## Usage

~~~~~
// basic usage
$array = $databaseQuery->getBindValues();

// usage with all arguments
$array = $databaseQuery->getBindValues($options = array());
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$options` (optional) `string|\PDOStatement|DatabaseQuery|array` Optionally specify an option: - `query` (\PDOStatement|DatabaseQuery): Copy bind values to this query object (default=null) - `count` (bool): Get a count of values rather than array of values (default=false) 3.0.157+ - `inSQL` (string): Only get bind values referenced in this given SQL statement

## Return value

- `array|int` Returns one of the following: - Associative array in format [ ":column" => "value" ] where each "value" is int, string or NULL. - if `count` option specified as true then it returns a count of values instead.
