# $page->url($options = null): string

Source: `wire/core/Page.php`

Returns the URL to the page (optionally with additional $options)

- This method can also be accessed by property `$page->url` (without parenthesis).

- Like `$page->path()` but comes from server document root. Path and url are identical if
  installation is not running from a subdirectory.

- Use `$page->httpUrl()` if you need the URL to include scheme and hostname.

- **Need to hook this method?** While it's not directly hookable, it does use the `$page->path()`
  method, which *is* hookable. As a result, you can affect the output of the url() method by
  hooking the path() method instead.

## $options argument

You can specify an `$options` argument to this method with any of the following:

- `pageNum` (int|string|bool): Specify pagination number, "+" for next pagination, "-" for previous pagination,
   or boolean true (3.0.155+) for current.
- `urlSegmentStr` (string|bool): Specify a URL segment string to append, or true (3.0.155+) for current.
- `urlSegments` (array|bool): Specify array of URL segments to append (may be used instead of urlSegmentStr),
   or boolean true (3.0.155+) for current. Specify associative array to use keys and values in order (3.0.155+).
- `data` (array): Array of key=value variables to form a query string.
- `http` (bool): Specify true to make URL include scheme and hostname (default=false).
- `language` (Language): Specify Language object to return URL in that Language.
- `host` (string): Force hostname to use, i.e. 'world.com' or 'hello.world.com'. The 'http' option is implied. (3.0.178+)
- `scheme` (string): Like http option, makes URL have scheme+hostname, but you specify scheme here, i.e. 'https' (3.0.178+)
   Note that if you specify scheme of 'https' and $config->noHTTPS is true, the 'http' scheme will still be used.

You can also specify any of the following for `$options` as shortcuts:

- If you specify an `int` for options it is assumed to be the `pageNum` option.
- If you specify `+` or `-` for options it is assumed to be the `pageNum` “next/previous pagination” option.
- If you specify any other `string` for options it is assumed to be the `urlSegmentStr` option.
- If you specify a `boolean` (true) for options it is assumed to be the `http` option.

Please also note regarding `$options`:

- This method honors template slash settings for page, URL segments and page numbers.
- Any passed in URL segments are automatically sanitized with `Sanitizer::pageNameUTF8()`.
- If using the `pageNum` or URL segment options please also make sure these are enabled on the page’s template.
- The query string generated by any `data` variables is entity encoded when output formatting is on.
- The `language` option requires that the `LanguageSupportPageNames` module is installed.
- The prefix for page numbers honors `$config->pageNumUrlPrefix` and multi-language prefixes as well.

~~~~~
// Using $page->url to output navigation
foreach($page->children as $child) {
  echo "<li><a href='$child->url'>$child->title</a></li>";
}
~~~~~
~~~~~
// Difference between url() and path() on site running from subdirectory /my-site/
echo $page->url();  // outputs: /my-site/about/contact/
echo $page->path(); // outputs: /about/contact/
~~~~~
~~~~~
// Specify that you want a specific pagination (output: /example/page2)
echo $page->url(2);

// Get URL for next and previous pagination
echo $page->url('+'); // next
echo $page->url('-'); // prev

// Get a URL with scheme and hostname (output: http://domain.com/example/)
echo $page->url(true);

// Specify a URL segment string (output: /example/photos/1)
echo $page->url('photos/1');

// Use a URL segment array (output: /example/photos/1)
echo $page->url([
  'urlSegments' => [ 'photos', '1' ]
]);

// Get URL in a specific language
$fr = $languages->get('fr');
echo $page->url($fr);

// Include data/query vars (output: /example/?action=view&type=photos)
echo $page->url([
  'data' => [
    'action' => 'view',
    'type' => 'photos'
  ]
]);

// Specify multiple options (output: http://domain.com/example/foo/page3?bar=baz)
echo $page->url([
  'http' => true,
  'pageNum' => 3,
  'urlSegmentStr' => 'foo',
  'data' => [ 'bar' => 'baz' ]
]);
~~~~~

## Arguments

- array|int|string|bool|Language|null $options Optionally specify options to modify default behavior (see method description).

## Return value

string Returns page URL, for example: `/my-site/about/contact/`

## See also

- [Page::path()](method-path.md)
- [Page::httpUrl()](method-httpurl.md)
- [Page::editUrl()](method-editurl.md)
- [Page::localUrl()](index.md)
