# ProcessWire 3.0.86 core updates

Source: https://processwire.com/blog/posts/pw-3.0.86/

## Sections


## ProcessWire 3.0.86 core updates

15 December 2017 by Ryan Cramer [ 6 Comments](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.86/#comments)


## ProcessWire 3.0.86

We are getting close to our next master version of ProcessWire 3.x. This week work continued on covering issue reports, but we also added a few items from our feature requests repository as well. This post contains a brief summary of what went into the core this week.


### Support for user accounts with login disabled

We added the ability to have user accounts that cannot login. This is done by specifying user roles that aren't allowed to login, via a [$config setting](https://github.com/processwire/processwire/commit/9b10232b732bd8fc61911a7919a14faa162e4794#diff-b0392425b4dd88865321d359bf85750cR334). However, I suspect many will want to use the default value, which is to prevent login by users having a role named `login-disabled`. If you simply create a role named “login-disabled”, and assign it to any user, that user will not be able to login. It's as simple as that. This suggestion originated from @gmclelland.


### Support for interlace option with JPEGs

We added support to our GD and ImageMagick image sizing engines for creation of interlaced JPEG images, resulting on smaller file sizes. While I've only tested it a bit so far, it makes enough of a difference that I recommend it. To enable, add the following to your /site/config.php file: `$config->imageSizerOptions('interlace', true);` This suggestion came from @jmartsch and big thanks to Horst for implementing it.


### Improved SVG dimension detection

Improvements were made to SVG dimension detection, which can now use ImageMagick (when present) to rasterize SVGs in memory to determine target dimensions. Thanks to Adrian for the suggestion and implementation.


### Max length for URL segments

ProcessWire has a maximum length of 128 characters for any individual URL segment (segments in the URL after the page path). This maximum is now configurable via `$config->maxUrlSegmentLength`. The default value is 128, so if you want to adjust it to something different, you would just set it from your /site/config.php file. This suggestion came from @weberhofer.


### Other updates

ProcessWire 3.0.86 also contains adjustments for PHP 7.2, improvements to loading of autojoin fields (thanks Avoine), and several bug fixes reported in our processwire-issues repo. We hope you enjoy these updates and please let us know how they work for you. Be sure to read [ProcessWire Weekly](http://weekly.pw) this weekend for the latest ProcessWire news and updates.
