# ProcessWire 3.0.96 new master

Source: https://processwire.com/blog/posts/pw-3.0.96-master/

## Sections


## New master version: 3.0.96

16 March 2018 by Ryan Cramer [ 4 Comments](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.96-master/#comments)


## ProcessWire 3.0.96

Like the last few weeks, most efforts this week focused on resolving issue reports at GitHub and preparing the master version. We are at a point where I think our dev branch is far better than our previous master (3.0.62), in every way, stability included. So there's no reason to delay further—3.0.96 is our new master version. We've had a lot of participation from the community in submitting and resolving reports in preparing this master version, so a big thanks to everyone for that.

Like most new master versions, we are likely to have a couple more master versions resolving minor issues that appear as usage increases. Following that, we'll be back on the dev branch and then taking a closer look at the queue of pull requests to merge, as well as other potential new items.

You might be wondering about the version number (3.0.96), as we've previously talked about version 3.1. Well version 3.1 is still on the way of course, but had always intended for that version to not only include the new Uikit admin theme, but also the new Uikit-based site profile “Regular” (which isn't in the core yet). I had also wanted to wait until Uikit 3 was fully out of beta for ProcessWire version 3.1. That's still the plan. Having used Uikit 3 for quite some time now, I feel very good about its stability for our admin theme. But what number we use for the version doesn't matter all that much, as 3.0.96 is a major and great upgrade relative to 3.0.62, regardless of what number we use in the version. In this post, we'll summarize all that is new in 3.0.96 since the last master version (3.0.62).


### How to upgrade to 3.0.96

If you are already running a 3.x version of ProcessWire, then all you need to do is replace your /wire/ directory with a copy from the new version. It's not necessary to replace anything else. Of course, always test upgrades thoroughly on a non-production installation before putting into production. If you are running a 2.x version of ProcessWire, then see the README file included with ProcessWire for upgrade instructions.


### What’s new in 3.0.96 master

Like most new major versions, this one has a whole lot of fixes and optimizations relative to the previous master; especially this time. There are far too many to cover, and despite being among the most important updates in any version, they are generally not that interesting to read about. So we'll focus on what new things have been added, and there are a lot! Here's a summary with some highlights and links to the posts where each was introduced:

- Added new Uikit v3 admin theme to the core ([details](/blog/posts/uikit-3-admin-theme-updates/) and [more details](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.83-core-updates/#uikit-3-admin-theme-now-in-core)).
- Added support for [client side image resizing](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.63-adds-client-side-image-resizing/).
- [Upgraded UI](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.67-upgraded-file-and-image-tags/) for tags on File and Image fields (using Selectize library).
- Page export and import functions ([details](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.68-and-more-on-page-export-import/), [more details](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.70/), and [even more](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.71-adds-new-core-module/)).
- Added drag-and-drop (and paste) [image uploads](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.87/) in CKEditor.
- Added [focus point cropping](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.89/) support in image fields and followed up with focus point [zoom support](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.92/) as well.
- Support for new [image manipulation actions](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.88) with image fields.
- Added new $files->find() method ([details](/blog/posts/functional-fields/)).
- Major improvements to the UI for definition and management of fieldsets ([details](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.73-and-new-fieldset-types/#processwire-3.0.73-updates)).
- Addition of [FieldsetPage](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.74-adds-new-fieldsetpage-field-type/) (core) and support for [FieldsetGroup](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.73-and-new-fieldset-types/#fieldset-group-fieldtypefieldsetgroup) (ProFields).
- A new way of finding pages—by Fieldtype ([details](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.91-core-updates/)).
- Added support for [owner selectors](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.95-core-updates/).
- Major upgrades to the [Roles editor](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.81-upgrades-the-role-editor/).
- Major upgrades to [Password fields](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.83-core-updates/#password-field-updates).
- Major upgrades to the [ProcessWire installer](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.84-core-updates/#updated-processwire-installer).
- Significant improvements to the management of [user profile fields](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.84-core-updates/#user-profile-updates).
- Added support for [collapsed notifications](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.85/) in AdminThemeUikit.
- Added support for [distinct checkbox label and header](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.85/) in Checkbox fields.
- Added support for user accounts with [login disabled](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.86/).
- Added support for [interlace option with JPEGs](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.86/).
- Improved markup regions with support for [markup region hints](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.70/#markup-region-hints).
- Added support for [new field/template context settings](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.87/#new-field-template-context-settings).
- Upgrade to CKEditor [4.7.0](/blog/posts/processwire-3.0.65-core-updates/).
- And much more…

As you can see, there is a lot to find in this new version, if you haven't already been following the dev branch. Relative to the previous master version, this new master version is the combination and result of 34 dev branch versions.

Thanks for reading and we encourage you to try out and enjoy the new master version. If you run into any issues, please be sure to report them in our issues repository at GitHub. Have a great weekend and enjoy reading the [ProcessWire Weekly](http://weekly.pw)!
