# New Uikit admin customization options (ProcessWire 3.0.179)

Source: https://processwire.com/blog/posts/pw-3.0.179/

## Sections


## ProcessWire 3.0.179 – New Uikit admin theme customization options

28 May 2021 by Ryan Cramer [ 3 Comments](/blog/posts/pw-3.0.179/#comments)

ProcessWire 3.0.179 adds great new admin theme customization tools that put you in full control over the admin styles.

This useful addition comes to ProcessWire thanks to a PR ([#189](https://github.com/processwire/processwire/pull/189)) submitted by [Bernhard Baumrock](https://www.baumrock.com/). Many of you already know Bernhard from many of his great [modules](https://processwire.com/modules/author/bernhardbaumrock/). This core addition is a big one with tons of upsides and opens a lot of new doors that we didn't have before, so this post will attempt to cover many of the details.

This addition means that ProcessWire can now compile Uikit along with your own custom .less files into it at the same time, putting you in control of the admin theme styling. Previously this was something that might only be considered by serious admin theme module developers. But now, anyone can do it just by adding an admin.less file to their /site/templates/ directory. ProcessWire sees the .less file and then recompiles it all automatically!

Not only does this update make it easy to customize the admin theme, but it also opens doors for sharing those customizations and enabling entire new admin theme styles that would have previously required a separate AdminTheme module.


### New “rock” style for AdminThemeUikit

Bernhard's PR also adds a new admin style to AdminThemeUikit called the "rock" style. This style is very close to stock Uikit and intended as a starting point to launch your own custom admin styles/themes from. One really useful feature of the Rock style is that [like Uikit] it is based around a primary color, and that primary color is used throughout to style all the different components. This means that you can modify a single LESS variable named `@rock-primary` with the color you want to use, and it will affect the appearance of the entire admin theme.


### Keeping Uikit up-to-date

Beyond what this addition brings to everyone else, it also makes life a lot simpler for me as the maintainer of the core AdminThemeUikit module. Prior to this, I found it difficult to keep the [UIkit](https://getuikit.com/) version up-to-date. I tended to delay anything that might involve having to recompile the LESS files because it usually meant I'd spend a lot of time resolving Node dependencies and related errors. For that reason, rarely did I update the Uikit version or AdminThemeUikit .less files. (Though to Uikit's credit, it has worked quite well even when not up-to-date.)

Bernhard's PR moved all of our .less files around in a manner that completely separates UIkit from AdminThemeUikit's .less files, and replaces all the Node baggage with Wikimedia's PHP .less file parser. Now ProcessWire itself (with the Less module) handles the compilation of Uikit rather than 3rd party dependencies in a different language. Now everything just works, and very smoothly at that.

Because it's now so simple, we're going to be regularly updating the Uikit version in ProcessWire. As of ProcessWire 3.0.179 we are now running the latest version of Uikit, version 3.6.22 from May 18, 2021. Previously we were running Uikit 3.0.0 rc17 from September 2018. That's nearly 3 years worth of versions, so a pretty major upgrade to Uikit. Everything in ProcessWire still seems to work just fine despite the major version change, but please keep an eye out for issues (particularly JS ones) and report them if you come across any.

*Now that you understand some of the benefits that this update brings, let's take a closer look at how to use it in practice. You'll need ProcessWire 3.0.179 or newer to proceed.*


## Three simple steps to customize your admin theme

- Install the ProcessWire [Less](https://processwire.com/modules/less/) module.
- Specify the “reno” or “rock” base style in /site/config.php.
- Create and edit /site/templates/admin.less and see your changes in the admin.

June 2022 note: there is now the [AdminStyleRock](https://processwire.com/talk/topic/25668-adminstylerock-easily-style-your-processwire-backend-with-two-simple-settings/) module which can also do this for you.

*Either step 2 or 3 can be optional too. Let’s take a closer look at each of these steps below:*


### 1. Install the “Less” module

Download and install the “Less” module from [https://processwire.com/modules/less/](https://processwire.com/modules/less/). This module is required to compile customizations to AdminThemeUikit. If this module is not installed then all of the capabilities described here will not be available.


### 2. Choose a base style

To proceed, edit the /site/config.php file and specify what base style you want to start from. Currently you can specify either “reno” or “rock”, like in the example below:

```
$config->AdminThemeUikit('style', 'rock');
```

Below are descriptions of both base styles:

*If you selected the “rock” style and want to see what it looks like before moving to the next step, simply reload/refresh the ProcessWire admin in your web browser and it should compile and use it.*


### 3. Create and edit an admin.less file

Create a new LESS file named /site/templates/admin.less for your customizations and add a style or two just to test things out. For example:

```
div { border: 1px solid red; }
```

Save the LESS file and the admin theme will automatically recompile and include your change(s). Click reload/refresh in your web browser to start the recompile and see the changes.


### Additional notes


### LESS variables reference

- [Rock style](https://github.com/processwire/processwire/blob/dev/wire/modules/AdminTheme/AdminThemeUikit/uikit-pw/styles/rock.less)
- [Reno style](https://github.com/processwire/processwire/blob/dev/wire/modules/AdminTheme/AdminThemeUikit/uikit-pw/styles/reno.less)
- [Uikit base](https://github.com/uikit/uikit/blob/develop/src/less/components/base.less)
- [Uikit components](https://github.com/uikit/uikit/tree/develop/src/less/components)


## AdminThemeUikit $config settings

The `$config->AdminThemeUikit` array has various settings you can customize in your /site/config.php file. Below is an example of all settings with their default values:

```
$config->AdminThemeUikit = [
  'style' => '',
  'recompile' => false,
  'compress' => true,
  'customCssFile' => '/site/assets/admin.css',
  'customLessFiles' => [ '/site/templates/admin.less' ],
];
```

When modifying a setting from your /site/config.php file, you can specify one or more of them in a PHP array like above, or you can specify any individually using a method call like in the example below. Use whatever definition style you prefer.

```
$config->AdminThemeUikit('style', 'rock'); 
$config->AdminThemeUikit('compress', false);
```


### Description of all settings


### Note for customCssFile and customLessFiles

Chances are you won’t ever need to change these settings, but just in case you do, please make note of the following. Your values for these settings should literally begin with one of the following paths below. Meaning, the literal words, regardless of your actual /site/ directory name (if you happen to be using something different).

- /site/assets/
- /site/templates/
- /site/modules/

This is because the paths above are automatically converted to their actual values at runtime. This ensures the same value works everywhere (development, production, staging, etc.) and regardless of whether the site is running from a subdirectory or not.

Should you choose to use a different location, that’s also okay, but just note that ProcessWire will not perform any runtime conversion on it.


### Wrapping up

Big thanks again to Bernhard for his work on this PR which puts AdminThemeUikit on track with its original mission of being an admin theme that one can easily customize and build from. Now it's finally there. We can't wait to see what you all come up with. Thanks for reading! As always, you can read more ProcessWire news and updates at [ProcessWire Weekly](https://weekly.pw).
