docs/full/wire/core/Pagefile/method-tags.md, before:

# $pagefile->tags($value = null): string|array

Source: `wire/core/Pagefile.php`

Get or set the "tags" property, when in use.

~~~~~
$file = $page->files->first();
$tags = $file->tags(); // Get tags string
$tags = $file->tags(true); // Get tags array
$file->tags("foo bar baz"); // Set tags to be these 3 tags
$tags->tags(["foo", "bar", "baz"]); // Same as above, using array
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$value` (optional) `bool|string|array` Specify one of the following: - Omit to simply return the tags as a string. - Boolean true if you want to return tags as an array (rather than string). - Boolean false to return tags as an array, with lowercase enforced. - String or array if you are setting the tags.

## Return value

string|array Returns the current tags as a string or an array. When an array is returned, it is an associative array where the key and value are both the tag (keys are always lowercase).

## See also

- [Pagefile::addTag()](method-addtag.md)
- [Pagefile::hasTag()](method-hastag.md)
- [Pagefile::removeTag()](method-removetag.md)

Commit message:

Align method docs with official structure

docs/full/wire/core/Pagefile/method-tags.md, after:

# $pagefile->tags($value = null): string|array

Source: `wire/core/Pagefile.php`

Get or set the "tags" property, when in use.

## Example

~~~~~
$file = $page->files->first();
$tags = $file->tags(); // Get tags string
$tags = $file->tags(true); // Get tags array
$file->tags("foo bar baz"); // Set tags to be these 3 tags
$tags->tags(["foo", "bar", "baz"]); // Same as above, using array
~~~~~

## Usage

~~~~~
// basic usage
$string = $pagefile->tags();

// usage with all arguments
$string = $pagefile->tags($value = null);
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$value` (optional) `bool|string|array` Specify one of the following: - Omit to simply return the tags as a string. - Boolean true if you want to return tags as an array (rather than string). - Boolean false to return tags as an array, with lowercase enforced. - String or array if you are setting the tags.

## Return value

- `string|array` Returns the current tags as a string or an array. When an array is returned, it is an associative array where the key and value are both the tag (keys are always lowercase).

## See Also

- [Pagefile::addTag()](method-addtag.md)
- [Pagefile::hasTag()](method-hastag.md)
- [Pagefile::removeTag()](method-removetag.md)
