docs/core/wire/core/Wire/method-addhookafter.md, before:

# $wire->addHookAfter($method, $toObject, $toMethod = null, $options = array()): string

Source: `wire/core/Wire.php`

Add a hook to be executed after the hooked method

- Use an "after" hook when you have code that should execute after a hookable method executes.
- One benefit of using an "after" hook is that you can have it modify the return value.

~~~~~
// Attach hook to a method in current object
$this->addHookAfter('Page::path', $this, 'yourHookMethodName');

// Attach hook to an inline function
$this->addHookAfter('Page::path', function($event) { ... });

// Attach hook to a procedural function
$this->addHookAfter('Page::path', 'your_function_name');

// Attach hook from single object instance ($page) to inline function
$page->addHookAfter('path', function($event) { ... });
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$method` `string|array` Method to hook in one of the following formats (please omit 3 leading underscores): - `Class::method` - If hooking to *all* object instances of the class. - `method` - If hooking to a single object instance. - Since 3.0.137 it may also be multiple methods to hook in CSV string or array.
- `$toObject` `object|null|callable` Specify one of the following: - Object instance to call `$toMethod` from (like `$this`). - Inline function (closure) if providing implemention inline. - Procedural function name, if hook is implemented by a procedural function. - Null if you want to use the 3rd argument and don't need this argument.
- `$toMethod` (optional) `string|array` Method from $toObject, or function name to call on a hook event. This argument can be sustituted as the 2nd argument when the 2nd argument isn't needed, or it can be the $options argument.
- `$options` (optional) `array` Array of options that can modify behavior: - `type` (string): May be either 'method' or 'property'. If property, then it will respond to $obj->property rather than $obj->method(). The default type is 'method'. - `priority` (int): A number determining the priority of a hook, where lower numbers are executed before higher numbers. The default priority is 100.

## Return value

string A special Hook ID (or CSV string of hook IDs) that should be retained if you need to remove the hook later.

## See also

- [https://processwire.com/docs/modules/hooks/](https://processwire.com/docs/modules/hooks/)

Commit message:

Align method docs with official structure

docs/core/wire/core/Wire/method-addhookafter.md, after:

# $wire->addHookAfter($method, $toObject, $toMethod = null, $options = array()): string

Source: `wire/core/Wire.php`

Add a hook to be executed after the hooked method

- Use an "after" hook when you have code that should execute after a hookable method executes.
- One benefit of using an "after" hook is that you can have it modify the return value.

## Example

~~~~~
// Attach hook to a method in current object
$this->addHookAfter('Page::path', $this, 'yourHookMethodName');

// Attach hook to an inline function
$this->addHookAfter('Page::path', function($event) { ... });

// Attach hook to a procedural function
$this->addHookAfter('Page::path', 'your_function_name');

// Attach hook from single object instance ($page) to inline function
$page->addHookAfter('path', function($event) { ... });
~~~~~

## Usage

~~~~~
// basic usage
$string = $wire->addHookAfter($method, $toObject);

// usage with all arguments
$string = $wire->addHookAfter($method, $toObject, $toMethod = null, $options = array());
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$method` `string|array` Method to hook in one of the following formats (please omit 3 leading underscores): - `Class::method` - If hooking to *all* object instances of the class. - `method` - If hooking to a single object instance. - Since 3.0.137 it may also be multiple methods to hook in CSV string or array.
- `$toObject` `object|null|callable` Specify one of the following: - Object instance to call `$toMethod` from (like `$this`). - Inline function (closure) if providing implemention inline. - Procedural function name, if hook is implemented by a procedural function. - Null if you want to use the 3rd argument and don't need this argument.
- `$toMethod` (optional) `string|array` Method from $toObject, or function name to call on a hook event. This argument can be sustituted as the 2nd argument when the 2nd argument isn't needed, or it can be the $options argument.
- `$options` (optional) `array` Array of options that can modify behavior: - `type` (string): May be either 'method' or 'property'. If property, then it will respond to $obj->property rather than $obj->method(). The default type is 'method'. - `priority` (int): A number determining the priority of a hook, where lower numbers are executed before higher numbers. The default priority is 100.

## Return value

- `string` A special Hook ID (or CSV string of hook IDs) that should be retained if you need to remove the hook later.

## See Also

- [https://processwire.com/docs/modules/hooks/](https://processwire.com/docs/modules/hooks/)
