# $pageTraversal->urlOptions(Page $page, $options = array()): string

Source: `wire/core/PageTraversal.php`

Returns the URL to the page with $options

You can specify an `$options` argument to this method with any of the following:

- `pageNum` (int|string|bool): Specify pagination number, "+" for next pagination, "-" for previous pagination, or true for current.
- `urlSegmentStr` (string|bool): Specify a URL segment string to append, or true (3.0.155+) for current.
- `urlSegments` (array|bool): Specify regular array of URL segments to append (may be used instead of urlSegmentStr).
   Specify boolean true for current URL segments (3.0.155+).
   Specify associative array (in 3.0.155+) to make both keys and values part of the URL segment string.
- `data` (array): Array of key=value variables to form a query string.
- `http` (bool): Specify true to make URL include scheme and hostname (default=false).
- `scheme` (string): Like the http option, makes URL include scheme and hostname, but you specify scheme with this, i.e. 'https' (3.0.178+)
- `host` (string): Hostname to force use of, i.e. 'world.com' or 'hello.world.com'. The 'http' option is implied when host specified. (3.0.178+)
- `language` (Language): Specify Language object to return URL in that Language.

You can also specify any of the following for `$options` as shortcuts:

- If you specify an `int` for options it is assumed to be the `pageNum` option.
- If you specify `+` or `-` for options it is assumed to be the `pageNum` “next/previous pagination” option.
- If you specify any other `string` for options it is assumed to be the `urlSegmentStr` option.
- If you specify a `boolean` (true) for options it is assumed to be the `http` option.

Please also note regarding `$options`:

- This method honors template slash settings for page, URL segments and page numbers.
- Any passed in URL segments are automatically sanitized with `Sanitizer::pageNameUTF8()`.
- If using the `pageNum` or URL segment options please also make sure these are enabled on the page’s template.
- The query string generated by any `data` variables is entity encoded when output formatting is on.
- The `language` option requires that the `LanguageSupportPageNames` module is installed.
- The prefix for page numbers honors `$config->pageNumUrlPrefix` and multi-language prefixes as well.

## Usage

~~~~~
// basic usage
$string = $pageTraversal->urlOptions($page);

// usage with all arguments
$string = $pageTraversal->urlOptions(Page $page, $options = array());
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$page` `Page`
- `$options` (optional) `array|int|string|bool|Language` Optionally specify options to modify default behavior (see method description).

## Return value

- `string` Returns page URL, for example: `/my-site/about/contact/`

## See Also

- [Page::path()](../Page/method-path.md)
- [Page::httpUrl()](../Page/method-httpurl.md)
- [Page::editUrl()](../Page/method-editurl.md)
- [Page::localUrl()](../Page/method-localurl.md)
