docs/full/wire/core/Pagefiles/method-tags.md, before:

# $pagefiles->tags($value = null): string|array|Pagefiles

Source: `wire/core/Pagefiles.php`

Get list of tags for all files in this Pagefiles array, or return files matching given tag(s)

This method can either return a list of all tags available, or return all files
matching the given tag or tags (an alias of findTag method).

~~~~~
// Get string of all tags
$tagsString = $page->files->tags();

// Get array of all tags
$tagsArray = $page->files->tags(true);

// Find all files matching given tag
$pagefiles = $page->files->tags('foobar');
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$value` (optional) `bool|string|array` Specify one of the following: - Omit to return all tags as a string. - Boolean true if you want to return tags as an array (rather than string). - Boolean false to return tags as an array, with lowercase enforced. - String if you want to return files matching tags (See `Pagefiles::findTag()` method for usage) - Array if you want to return files matching tags (See `Pagefiles::findTag()` method for usage)

## Return value

string|array|Pagefiles Returns all tags as a string or an array, or Pagefiles matching given tag(s). When a tags array is returned, it is an associative array where the key and value are both the tag (keys are always lowercase).

## See also

- [Pagefiles::findTag()](method-findtag.md)
- [Pagefile::tags()](../Pagefile/method-tags.md)

Commit message:

Align method docs with official structure

docs/full/wire/core/Pagefiles/method-tags.md, after:

# $pagefiles->tags($value = null): string|array|Pagefiles

Source: `wire/core/Pagefiles.php`

Get list of tags for all files in this Pagefiles array, or return files matching given tag(s)

This method can either return a list of all tags available, or return all files
matching the given tag or tags (an alias of findTag method).

## Example

~~~~~
// Get string of all tags
$tagsString = $page->files->tags();

// Get array of all tags
$tagsArray = $page->files->tags(true);

// Find all files matching given tag
$pagefiles = $page->files->tags('foobar');
~~~~~

## Usage

~~~~~
// basic usage
$string = $pagefiles->tags();

// usage with all arguments
$string = $pagefiles->tags($value = null);
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$value` (optional) `bool|string|array` Specify one of the following: - Omit to return all tags as a string. - Boolean true if you want to return tags as an array (rather than string). - Boolean false to return tags as an array, with lowercase enforced. - String if you want to return files matching tags (See `Pagefiles::findTag()` method for usage) - Array if you want to return files matching tags (See `Pagefiles::findTag()` method for usage)

## Return value

- `string|array|Pagefiles` Returns all tags as a string or an array, or Pagefiles matching given tag(s). When a tags array is returned, it is an associative array where the key and value are both the tag (keys are always lowercase).

## See Also

- [Pagefiles::findTag()](method-findtag.md)
- [Pagefile::tags()](../Pagefile/method-tags.md)
