docs/core/wire/core/Module/index.md, before:

# Module

Source: `wire/core/Module.php`

ProcessWire Module Interface

Provides the base interfaces required by modules.


Module is the primary PHP interface for module types in ProcessWire.
The Module interface doesn't actually require any specific methods,
(other than the `className()` method) but is required as an interface
to state your intention to ProcessWire that your class is to be used
as a Module. As a result, all methods are optional, but including the
Module interface is not. You must also provide a means by which ProcessWire
can query information about your module. More on that below.

### Implementing the Module interface

Below is how you indicate a PHP class is a ProcessWire Module:

~~~~~
<?php namespace ProcessWire;
class HelloWorld extends WireData implements Module {
  // your class implementation
}
~~~~~

Modules should either extend the `WireData` class, or if they are a
predefined type already recognized by ProcessWire, they should extend
the base class of that type (or another module based upon it). Base
module types include:

- `AdminTheme`
- `Fieldtype`
- `FileCompilerModule`
- `FileValidatorModule`
- `Inputfield`
- `ModuleJS`
- `PageAction`
- `Process`
- `Textformatter`
- `WireAction`
- `WireMail`
- `WireSessionHandler`

### Requirements for Modules

1. Must provide a means of getting information about the module.
   This can be with a static `getModuleInfo()` method, or with
   a `ModuleName.info.php` file or a `ModuleName.info.json` file.

2. Must provide a `className()` method that returns the module
   class name. All Wire derived objects already do this, so
   you don't have to provide it unless your Module does not
   descend from a ProcessWire class. We recommend that your
   modules extend the Wire or WireData class.

3. If you have a `__construct()` method, it must not require any
   particular arguments.

4. If your module is configurable, it must also fulfill the
   `ConfigurableModule` interface.

### Optional methods

- `__construct()` - Called before module config is populated.

- `init()` - Called after module config is populated.

- `ready()` - Called after init(), after API ready. Note that ready() applies to 'autoload' modules only.

- `install()` - Called when module is installed.

- `uninstall()` - Called when module is uninstalled.

- `upgrade($fromVersion, $toVersion)` - Called on version change.

- `isAutoload()` - Returns a boolean indicating whether the module should be loaded at boot.
  Can also be specified as a property in module information.

- `isSingular()` - Returns a boolean indicating whether the module is limited to one instance or not.
  Can also be specified as a property in module information.

- `getModuleInfo()` - A static method that returns an array of module information.

These methods are outlined in more detail further down on this page.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

## Module Information

Modules must have some way to communicate information about
themselves to ProcessWire. This is done by providing an
associative array containing this module information. One
of the following implementations is required:

1. `getModuleInfo()` static method in your module class that returns an array.
2. `YourModuleClass.info.php` file that populates an `$info` array.
3. `YourModuleClass.info.json` file that contains an `info` object.

Each of these are demonstrated below:

**1) Static getModuleInfo() method:**
~~~~~
public static function getModuleInfo() {
  return array(
    'title' => 'Your Module Title',
    'version' => 1,
    'author' => 'Your Name',
    'summary' => 'Description of what this module does and who made it.',
    'href' => 'http://www.domain.com/info/about/this/module/',
    'autoload' => false, // set to true if module should auto-load at boot
    'requires' => array(
       'HelloWorld>=1.0.1',
       'PHP>=5.4.1',
       'ProcessWire>=2.4.1'
    ),
    'installs' => array('Module1', 'Module2', 'Module3'),
    );
}
~~~~~

**2) YourModuleClass.info.php file:**
Your file should populate an `$info` variable with an array exactly like
described for #1 above, i.e.

~~~~~
$info = array(
  'title' => 'Your Module Title',
  'version' => 1,
  // and so on, like the static version above
);
~~~~~

**3) YourModuleClass.info.json file:**
Your JSON file should contain nothing but an object/map of the module info:

~~~~~
{
  "title": "Your Module Title",
  "version": 1
}
~~~~~
Note: The example JSON above just shows "title" and "version", but you would
likely add more than that as needed, like shown in the static version above.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

## Module information properties

### Required info properties

- `title` (string): The module's title.

- `version` (int|string): An integer or string that indicates the version number.

- `summary` (string): Summary text of the module (1 sentence recommended).

### Optional info properties

- `href` (string): URL to more information about the module.

- `requires` (array|string): Array or CSV string of module class names that are required by this
   module in order to install.

   - **Requires Module version:** If a particular version of the module is required, then specify an operator
		and version number after the module name, like this: "HelloWorld>=1.0.1".

   - **Requires PHP version:** If a particular version of PHP is required, then specify "PHP" as the module name
		followed by an operator and required version number, like this: "PHP>=5.6.0".

   - **Requires ProcessWire version:** If a particular version of ProcessWire is required, then specify
		ProcessWire followed by an operator and required version number, like this: "ProcessWire>=2.4.1".

- `installs` (array|string): Array or CSV string of module class names that this module will handle install
   and uninstall for.
   This causes ProcessWire's dependency checker to ignore them and it is assumed your module will handle
   them. If your module does not handle them, ProcessWire will automatically install/uninstall them
   immediately after your module.

- `permanent` (boolean): This property is intended for only for core modules. When true, a module cannot be uninstalled.

- `permission` (string): Name of permission required of a user before ProcessWire will load the module (for non-superusers).
   Note that ProcessWire will not install this permission if it doesn't yet exist. To have it installed automatically,
   see the _permissions_ option below this.

- `permissions` (array): Array of permissions that ProcessWire will install (and uninstall) automatically.
   Permissions should be in the format: array('permission-name' => 'Permission description').

- `icon` (string): Optional icon name to represent this module.
   Currently uses [font-awesome](http://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/) icon names.
   Omit the "fa-" part, leaving just the icon name.

- `singular` (boolean): Is only one instance of this module allowed? (default=auto-detect).
   This is good for any module that you want to eliminate the possibility of multiple instances
   running at once. For instance, modules that become API variables are typically singular, whereas
   something like an Inputfield module would not be singular. When not specified, modules that extend an
   existing base type typically inherit the singular setting from the module they extend.

- `autoload` (boolean|string|callable|int): Should this module load automatically at boot? (default=false).
   This is good for modules that attach hooks or that need to otherwise load on every single
   request. Autoload is typically specified as a boolean true or false. Below are the different ways
   autoload can be specified:

   - **Boolean:** Specify true or false to indicate the module should either always autoload (true)
     or never autoload (false).

   - **Selector string:** The module will be automatically loaded only if the current page matches the
     selector string. For example, a selector string of `template=admin` would mean the module will
     only autoload in the admin side of ProcessWire.

   - **Callable function:** The module will automatically load only if the given callable function
     returns true.

   - **Integer:** If given integer 2 or higher, it will autoload the module before other autoload
     modules (in /site/modules/). Higher numbers autoload before lower numbers.

- `searchable` (string): When present, indicates that module implements a search() method
   consistent with the SearchableModule interface. The value of the 'searchable' property should
   be the name that the search results are referred to, using ascii characters of a-z, 0-9, and
   underscore. See the SearchableModule interface in this file for more details.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Module Methods

### __construct()

This method is called by PHP immediately when the module is instantiated, and before any
configuration data has been populated to the module. This method must not have any required
arguments. This method is a good place for populating default configuration values or any
other initialization you want to occur before ProcessWire sees it or populates anything to it.
Your construct method should not assume that the module will actually be executed, as
ProcessWire may instantiate a module for informational reasons.

### init()

This method is called after `__construct()` and after any configuration data has been populated
to the module. It is called before the module is handed over to the requester. This is a good
place to perform any initialization that requires configuration data and can be a good place to
attach hooks.

### ready()

This method is used only by _autoload_ modules. It is called when the entire ProcessWire API
is ready to use. This may be preferable to the `init()` method for autoload modules because
they are loaded and init()'d at boot, when everything else is loading too. The ready() method
is called once the boot has completed and all API variables are ready to use, but before any
page has been rendered. This makes it an excellent place to attach hooks.

### isSingular()

Indicates whether only one instance of a module is allowed to exist in memory.
If this method is not present, it will be auto-determined based on module type. If it is provided
in the module information array (discussed above) that will override this method.

This method exists primarily so that base module types may specify a singular state and have it
automatically inherit to any modules extending the type. If you are not extending a base module
type then you can implement this method, or you can provide it in your module info array.

A module that returns TRUE is referred to as a "singular" module, because there will never be any more
than a single instance of the module running.

Return TRUE if this module is a single reusable instance, returning the same instance on every
call from Modules. Return FALSE if this module should return a new instance on every call from Modules.

- Singular modules will have their instance active for the entire request after instantiated.
- Non-singular modules return a new instance on every `$modules->get("YourModule")` call.
- Modules that attach hooks are usually singular.
- Modules that may have multiple instances (like `Inputfield` modules) should _not_ be singular.

If you are having trouble deciding whether to make your module singular or not, be sure to read
the documentation below for the `isAutoload()` method, because if your module is 'autoload' then
it's probably also 'singular'.

### isAutoload()

Should this module be automatically loaded at boot?
If this method is not present, it will be auto-determined based on module type. If it is provided
in the module information array (discussed above) that will override this method.

This method exists primarily so that base module types may specify an autoload state and have it
automatically inherit to any modules extending the type. If you are not extending a base module
type then you can implement this method, or you can provide it in your module info array.

A module that returns TRUE is referred to as an "autoload" module, because it automatically loads as
part of ProcessWire's boot process. Autoload modules load before PW attempts to handle the web request.

Return TRUE if this module is automatically loaded at runtime.
Return FALSE if this module must be requested via `$modules->get('ModuleName')` method before it is loaded.

Modules that are intended to attach hooks in the application typically should be autoload because
they listen in to classes rather than have classes call upon them. If they weren't autoloaded, then
they might never get to attach their hooks.

Modules that shouldn't be autoload are those that may or may not be needed at runtime, for example
`Fieldtype` and `Inputfield` modules.

_As a side note, I can't think of any reason why a non-singular module would ever be autoload. The fact that
an autoload module is automatically loaded as part of PW's boot process implies it's probably going to be the
only instance running. So if you've decided to make your module 'autoload', then is safe to assume you've
also decided your module will also be singular (if that helps anyone reading this)._

### install()

This method is called when the module is first installed. If implemented, install() methods typically are
defined hookable as `public function ___install()`.

The method should prepare the environment with anything else needed by the module, such as newly created
fields, pages, templates, etc. or installation of other modules.

If the install() method determines that the module cannot be installed for some reason, it should
throw a `WireException.`

### uninstall()

This method is called when the module is uninstalled. If implemented, uninstall() methods typically are
defined hookable as `public function ___uninstall()`.

This method should undo everything done by the install() method, or undo anything created by the module,
restoring the system back to the state that it was in before the module was installed.

If the uninstall() method determines that it cannot proceed for some reason, it should throw
a `WireException`.

### upgrade($fromVersion, $toVersion)

This method is called when a version change is detected. This method should make any adjustments needed
to support the module from one version to another. The previous known version ($fromVersion) and new
version ($toVersion) are provided as arguments.

If implemented, upgrade() methods typically are defined hookable as `public function ___upgrade(...)`.
If the upgrade cannot proceed for some reason, this method should throw a `WireException`.





The following methods may or may not be implemented, all are optional:

void install() Called when module is installed.
void uninstall() Called when module is uninstalled.
void upgrade($fromVersion, $toVersion) Called when a version change is detected for the module.
array getModuleInfo() Static method that returns array of module info (not required if module implements an info file instead).
void init() Called when the module is loaded, immediately after any configuration data has been populated to it.
void ready() For autoload modules only, called when the ProcessWire API is ready to use.
void setConfigData(array $data) Modules may optionally provide this method to receive config data from ProcessWire.

Methods:
- [`className($options = null): array`](method-classname.md)
- [`className($options = null)`](method-classname.md)
- [`className($options = null)`](method-classname.md)
- [`className(array|bool|null $options = null): string`](method-classname.md)

Commit message:

Add method summaries to class indexes

docs/core/wire/core/Module/index.md, after:

# Module

Source: `wire/core/Module.php`

ProcessWire Module Interface

Provides the base interfaces required by modules.


Module is the primary PHP interface for module types in ProcessWire.
The Module interface doesn't actually require any specific methods,
(other than the `className()` method) but is required as an interface
to state your intention to ProcessWire that your class is to be used
as a Module. As a result, all methods are optional, but including the
Module interface is not. You must also provide a means by which ProcessWire
can query information about your module. More on that below.

### Implementing the Module interface

Below is how you indicate a PHP class is a ProcessWire Module:

~~~~~
<?php namespace ProcessWire;
class HelloWorld extends WireData implements Module {
  // your class implementation
}
~~~~~

Modules should either extend the `WireData` class, or if they are a
predefined type already recognized by ProcessWire, they should extend
the base class of that type (or another module based upon it). Base
module types include:

- `AdminTheme`
- `Fieldtype`
- `FileCompilerModule`
- `FileValidatorModule`
- `Inputfield`
- `ModuleJS`
- `PageAction`
- `Process`
- `Textformatter`
- `WireAction`
- `WireMail`
- `WireSessionHandler`

### Requirements for Modules

1. Must provide a means of getting information about the module.
   This can be with a static `getModuleInfo()` method, or with
   a `ModuleName.info.php` file or a `ModuleName.info.json` file.

2. Must provide a `className()` method that returns the module
   class name. All Wire derived objects already do this, so
   you don't have to provide it unless your Module does not
   descend from a ProcessWire class. We recommend that your
   modules extend the Wire or WireData class.

3. If you have a `__construct()` method, it must not require any
   particular arguments.

4. If your module is configurable, it must also fulfill the
   `ConfigurableModule` interface.

### Optional methods

- `__construct()` - Called before module config is populated.

- `init()` - Called after module config is populated.

- `ready()` - Called after init(), after API ready. Note that ready() applies to 'autoload' modules only.

- `install()` - Called when module is installed.

- `uninstall()` - Called when module is uninstalled.

- `upgrade($fromVersion, $toVersion)` - Called on version change.

- `isAutoload()` - Returns a boolean indicating whether the module should be loaded at boot.
  Can also be specified as a property in module information.

- `isSingular()` - Returns a boolean indicating whether the module is limited to one instance or not.
  Can also be specified as a property in module information.

- `getModuleInfo()` - A static method that returns an array of module information.

These methods are outlined in more detail further down on this page.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

## Module Information

Modules must have some way to communicate information about
themselves to ProcessWire. This is done by providing an
associative array containing this module information. One
of the following implementations is required:

1. `getModuleInfo()` static method in your module class that returns an array.
2. `YourModuleClass.info.php` file that populates an `$info` array.
3. `YourModuleClass.info.json` file that contains an `info` object.

Each of these are demonstrated below:

**1) Static getModuleInfo() method:**
~~~~~
public static function getModuleInfo() {
  return array(
    'title' => 'Your Module Title',
    'version' => 1,
    'author' => 'Your Name',
    'summary' => 'Description of what this module does and who made it.',
    'href' => 'http://www.domain.com/info/about/this/module/',
    'autoload' => false, // set to true if module should auto-load at boot
    'requires' => array(
       'HelloWorld>=1.0.1',
       'PHP>=5.4.1',
       'ProcessWire>=2.4.1'
    ),
    'installs' => array('Module1', 'Module2', 'Module3'),
    );
}
~~~~~

**2) YourModuleClass.info.php file:**
Your file should populate an `$info` variable with an array exactly like
described for #1 above, i.e.

~~~~~
$info = array(
  'title' => 'Your Module Title',
  'version' => 1,
  // and so on, like the static version above
);
~~~~~

**3) YourModuleClass.info.json file:**
Your JSON file should contain nothing but an object/map of the module info:

~~~~~
{
  "title": "Your Module Title",
  "version": 1
}
~~~~~
Note: The example JSON above just shows "title" and "version", but you would
likely add more than that as needed, like shown in the static version above.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

## Module information properties

### Required info properties

- `title` (string): The module's title.

- `version` (int|string): An integer or string that indicates the version number.

- `summary` (string): Summary text of the module (1 sentence recommended).

### Optional info properties

- `href` (string): URL to more information about the module.

- `requires` (array|string): Array or CSV string of module class names that are required by this
   module in order to install.

   - **Requires Module version:** If a particular version of the module is required, then specify an operator
		and version number after the module name, like this: "HelloWorld>=1.0.1".

   - **Requires PHP version:** If a particular version of PHP is required, then specify "PHP" as the module name
		followed by an operator and required version number, like this: "PHP>=5.6.0".

   - **Requires ProcessWire version:** If a particular version of ProcessWire is required, then specify
		ProcessWire followed by an operator and required version number, like this: "ProcessWire>=2.4.1".

- `installs` (array|string): Array or CSV string of module class names that this module will handle install
   and uninstall for.
   This causes ProcessWire's dependency checker to ignore them and it is assumed your module will handle
   them. If your module does not handle them, ProcessWire will automatically install/uninstall them
   immediately after your module.

- `permanent` (boolean): This property is intended for only for core modules. When true, a module cannot be uninstalled.

- `permission` (string): Name of permission required of a user before ProcessWire will load the module (for non-superusers).
   Note that ProcessWire will not install this permission if it doesn't yet exist. To have it installed automatically,
   see the _permissions_ option below this.

- `permissions` (array): Array of permissions that ProcessWire will install (and uninstall) automatically.
   Permissions should be in the format: array('permission-name' => 'Permission description').

- `icon` (string): Optional icon name to represent this module.
   Currently uses [font-awesome](http://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/) icon names.
   Omit the "fa-" part, leaving just the icon name.

- `singular` (boolean): Is only one instance of this module allowed? (default=auto-detect).
   This is good for any module that you want to eliminate the possibility of multiple instances
   running at once. For instance, modules that become API variables are typically singular, whereas
   something like an Inputfield module would not be singular. When not specified, modules that extend an
   existing base type typically inherit the singular setting from the module they extend.

- `autoload` (boolean|string|callable|int): Should this module load automatically at boot? (default=false).
   This is good for modules that attach hooks or that need to otherwise load on every single
   request. Autoload is typically specified as a boolean true or false. Below are the different ways
   autoload can be specified:

   - **Boolean:** Specify true or false to indicate the module should either always autoload (true)
     or never autoload (false).

   - **Selector string:** The module will be automatically loaded only if the current page matches the
     selector string. For example, a selector string of `template=admin` would mean the module will
     only autoload in the admin side of ProcessWire.

   - **Callable function:** The module will automatically load only if the given callable function
     returns true.

   - **Integer:** If given integer 2 or higher, it will autoload the module before other autoload
     modules (in /site/modules/). Higher numbers autoload before lower numbers.

- `searchable` (string): When present, indicates that module implements a search() method
   consistent with the SearchableModule interface. The value of the 'searchable' property should
   be the name that the search results are referred to, using ascii characters of a-z, 0-9, and
   underscore. See the SearchableModule interface in this file for more details.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Module Methods

### __construct()

This method is called by PHP immediately when the module is instantiated, and before any
configuration data has been populated to the module. This method must not have any required
arguments. This method is a good place for populating default configuration values or any
other initialization you want to occur before ProcessWire sees it or populates anything to it.
Your construct method should not assume that the module will actually be executed, as
ProcessWire may instantiate a module for informational reasons.

### init()

This method is called after `__construct()` and after any configuration data has been populated
to the module. It is called before the module is handed over to the requester. This is a good
place to perform any initialization that requires configuration data and can be a good place to
attach hooks.

### ready()

This method is used only by _autoload_ modules. It is called when the entire ProcessWire API
is ready to use. This may be preferable to the `init()` method for autoload modules because
they are loaded and init()'d at boot, when everything else is loading too. The ready() method
is called once the boot has completed and all API variables are ready to use, but before any
page has been rendered. This makes it an excellent place to attach hooks.

### isSingular()

Indicates whether only one instance of a module is allowed to exist in memory.
If this method is not present, it will be auto-determined based on module type. If it is provided
in the module information array (discussed above) that will override this method.

This method exists primarily so that base module types may specify a singular state and have it
automatically inherit to any modules extending the type. If you are not extending a base module
type then you can implement this method, or you can provide it in your module info array.

A module that returns TRUE is referred to as a "singular" module, because there will never be any more
than a single instance of the module running.

Return TRUE if this module is a single reusable instance, returning the same instance on every
call from Modules. Return FALSE if this module should return a new instance on every call from Modules.

- Singular modules will have their instance active for the entire request after instantiated.
- Non-singular modules return a new instance on every `$modules->get("YourModule")` call.
- Modules that attach hooks are usually singular.
- Modules that may have multiple instances (like `Inputfield` modules) should _not_ be singular.

If you are having trouble deciding whether to make your module singular or not, be sure to read
the documentation below for the `isAutoload()` method, because if your module is 'autoload' then
it's probably also 'singular'.

### isAutoload()

Should this module be automatically loaded at boot?
If this method is not present, it will be auto-determined based on module type. If it is provided
in the module information array (discussed above) that will override this method.

This method exists primarily so that base module types may specify an autoload state and have it
automatically inherit to any modules extending the type. If you are not extending a base module
type then you can implement this method, or you can provide it in your module info array.

A module that returns TRUE is referred to as an "autoload" module, because it automatically loads as
part of ProcessWire's boot process. Autoload modules load before PW attempts to handle the web request.

Return TRUE if this module is automatically loaded at runtime.
Return FALSE if this module must be requested via `$modules->get('ModuleName')` method before it is loaded.

Modules that are intended to attach hooks in the application typically should be autoload because
they listen in to classes rather than have classes call upon them. If they weren't autoloaded, then
they might never get to attach their hooks.

Modules that shouldn't be autoload are those that may or may not be needed at runtime, for example
`Fieldtype` and `Inputfield` modules.

_As a side note, I can't think of any reason why a non-singular module would ever be autoload. The fact that
an autoload module is automatically loaded as part of PW's boot process implies it's probably going to be the
only instance running. So if you've decided to make your module 'autoload', then is safe to assume you've
also decided your module will also be singular (if that helps anyone reading this)._

### install()

This method is called when the module is first installed. If implemented, install() methods typically are
defined hookable as `public function ___install()`.

The method should prepare the environment with anything else needed by the module, such as newly created
fields, pages, templates, etc. or installation of other modules.

If the install() method determines that the module cannot be installed for some reason, it should
throw a `WireException.`

### uninstall()

This method is called when the module is uninstalled. If implemented, uninstall() methods typically are
defined hookable as `public function ___uninstall()`.

This method should undo everything done by the install() method, or undo anything created by the module,
restoring the system back to the state that it was in before the module was installed.

If the uninstall() method determines that it cannot proceed for some reason, it should throw
a `WireException`.

### upgrade($fromVersion, $toVersion)

This method is called when a version change is detected. This method should make any adjustments needed
to support the module from one version to another. The previous known version ($fromVersion) and new
version ($toVersion) are provided as arguments.

If implemented, upgrade() methods typically are defined hookable as `public function ___upgrade(...)`.
If the upgrade cannot proceed for some reason, this method should throw a `WireException`.





The following methods may or may not be implemented, all are optional:

void install() Called when module is installed.
void uninstall() Called when module is uninstalled.
void upgrade($fromVersion, $toVersion) Called when a version change is detected for the module.
array getModuleInfo() Static method that returns array of module info (not required if module implements an info file instead).
void init() Called when the module is loaded, immediately after any configuration data has been populated to it.
void ready() For autoload modules only, called when the ProcessWire API is ready to use.
void setConfigData(array $data) Modules may optionally provide this method to receive config data from ProcessWire.

Methods:
- [`className($options = null): array`](method-classname.md) Return an array of module information
- [`className($options = null)`](method-classname.md) Method to initialize the module.
- [`className($options = null)`](method-classname.md) Method called when API is fully ready and the $page is determined and set, but before a page is rendered.
- [`className(array|bool|null $options = null): string`](method-classname.md) Return this object’s class name
