docs/full/wire/core/PagesLoader/method-getpath.md, before:

# $pagesLoader->getPath($id, $options = array()): string

Source: `wire/core/PagesLoader.php`

Given an ID return a path to a page, without loading the actual page

Please note
===========
1) Always returns path in default language, unless a language argument/option is specified.
2) Path may be different from 'url' as it doesn't include $config->urls->root at the beginning.
3) In most cases, it's preferable to use $page->path() rather than this method. This method is
   here just for cases where a path is needed without loading the page.
4) It's possible for there to be Page::path() hooks, and this method completely bypasses them,
   which is another reason not to use it unless you know such hooks aren't applicable to you.

## Arguments

- `$id` `int|Page` ID of the page you want the path to
- `$options` (optional) `null|array|Language|int|string` Specify $options array or Language object, id or name. Allowed options: - language (int|string|anguage): To retrieve in non-default language, specify language object, ID or name (default=null) - useCache (bool): Allow pulling paths from already loaded pages? (default=true) - usePagePaths (bool): Allow pulling paths from PagePaths module, if installed? (default=true)

## Return value

string Path to page or blank on error/not-found

Commit message:

Align method docs with official structure

docs/full/wire/core/PagesLoader/method-getpath.md, after:

# $pagesLoader->getPath($id, $options = array()): string

Source: `wire/core/PagesLoader.php`

Given an ID return a path to a page, without loading the actual page

Please note
===========
1) Always returns path in default language, unless a language argument/option is specified.
2) Path may be different from 'url' as it doesn't include $config->urls->root at the beginning.
3) In most cases, it's preferable to use $page->path() rather than this method. This method is
   here just for cases where a path is needed without loading the page.
4) It's possible for there to be Page::path() hooks, and this method completely bypasses them,
   which is another reason not to use it unless you know such hooks aren't applicable to you.

## Usage

~~~~~
// basic usage
$string = $pagesLoader->getPath($id);

// usage with all arguments
$string = $pagesLoader->getPath($id, $options = array());
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$id` `int|Page` ID of the page you want the path to
- `$options` (optional) `null|array|Language|int|string` Specify $options array or Language object, id or name. Allowed options: - language (int|string|anguage): To retrieve in non-default language, specify language object, ID or name (default=null) - useCache (bool): Allow pulling paths from already loaded pages? (default=true) - usePagePaths (bool): Allow pulling paths from PagePaths module, if installed? (default=true)

## Return value

- `string` Path to page or blank on error/not-found
