docs/full/wire/core/WireMailTools/method-___isblacklistemail.md, before:

# $wireMailTools->___isBlacklistEmail($email, array $options = array()): bool|string

Source: `wire/core/WireMailTools.php`

Is given email address in the blacklist?

- Returns boolean false if not blacklisted, true if it is.
- Uses `$config->wireMail['blacklist']` array unless given another blacklist array in $options.
- Always independently verify that your blacklist rules are working before assuming they do.
- Specify true for the `why` option if you want to return the matching rule when email is in blacklist.
- Specify true for the `throw` option if you want a WireException thrown when email is blacklisted.

~~~~~
// Define blacklist in /site/config.php
$config->wireMail('blacklist', [
  'email@domain.com', // blacklist this email address
  '@host.domain.com', // blacklist all emails ending with @host.domain.com
  '@domain.com', // blacklist all emails ending with @domain.com
  'domain.com', // blacklist any email address ending with domain.com (would include mydomain.com too).
  '.domain.com', // blacklist any email address at any host off domain.com (domain.com, my.domain.com, but NOT mydomain.com).
  '/something/', // blacklist any email containing "something". PCRE regex assumed when "/" is used as opening/closing delimiter.
  '/.+@really\.bad\.com$/', // another example of using a PCRE regular expression (blocks all "@really.bad.com").
]);

// Test if email in blacklist
$email = 'somebody@domain.com';
$result = $mail->isBlacklistEmail($email, [ 'why' => true ]);
if($result === false) {
  echo "<p>Email address is not blacklisted</p>";
} else {
  echo "<p>Email is blacklisted by rule: $result</p>";
}
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$email` `string` Email to check
- `$options` (optional) `array` - `blacklist` (array): Use this blacklist rather than `$config->emailBlacklist` (default=[]) - `throw` (bool): Throw WireException if email is blacklisted? (default=false) - `why` (bool): Return string containing matching rule when email is blacklisted? (default=false)

## Return value

bool|string Returns true if email is blacklisted, false if not. Returns string if `why` option specified + email blacklisted.

## Throws

- WireException if given a blacklist that is not an array, or if requested to via `throw` option.

## Since

3.0.129

Commit message:

Align method docs with official structure

docs/full/wire/core/WireMailTools/method-___isblacklistemail.md, after:

# $wireMailTools->___isBlacklistEmail($email, array $options = array()): bool|string

Source: `wire/core/WireMailTools.php`

Is given email address in the blacklist?

- Returns boolean false if not blacklisted, true if it is.
- Uses `$config->wireMail['blacklist']` array unless given another blacklist array in $options.
- Always independently verify that your blacklist rules are working before assuming they do.
- Specify true for the `why` option if you want to return the matching rule when email is in blacklist.
- Specify true for the `throw` option if you want a WireException thrown when email is blacklisted.

## Example

~~~~~
// Define blacklist in /site/config.php
$config->wireMail('blacklist', [
  'email@domain.com', // blacklist this email address
  '@host.domain.com', // blacklist all emails ending with @host.domain.com
  '@domain.com', // blacklist all emails ending with @domain.com
  'domain.com', // blacklist any email address ending with domain.com (would include mydomain.com too).
  '.domain.com', // blacklist any email address at any host off domain.com (domain.com, my.domain.com, but NOT mydomain.com).
  '/something/', // blacklist any email containing "something". PCRE regex assumed when "/" is used as opening/closing delimiter.
  '/.+@really\.bad\.com$/', // another example of using a PCRE regular expression (blocks all "@really.bad.com").
]);

// Test if email in blacklist
$email = 'somebody@domain.com';
$result = $mail->isBlacklistEmail($email, [ 'why' => true ]);
if($result === false) {
  echo "<p>Email address is not blacklisted</p>";
} else {
  echo "<p>Email is blacklisted by rule: $result</p>";
}
~~~~~

## Usage

~~~~~
// basic usage
$bool = $wireMailTools->___isBlacklistEmail($email);

// usage with all arguments
$bool = $wireMailTools->___isBlacklistEmail($email, array $options = array());
~~~~~

## Arguments

- `$email` `string` Email to check
- `$options` (optional) `array` - `blacklist` (array): Use this blacklist rather than `$config->emailBlacklist` (default=[]) - `throw` (bool): Throw WireException if email is blacklisted? (default=false) - `why` (bool): Return string containing matching rule when email is blacklisted? (default=false)

## Return value

- `bool|string` Returns true if email is blacklisted, false if not. Returns string if `why` option specified + email blacklisted.

## Exceptions

- `WireException` if given a blacklist that is not an array, or if requested to via `throw` option.

## Since

3.0.129
